---
title: ""
date: "2024-09-28T00:00:00Z"
lastmod: "2024-09-28T00:00:00Z"
url: "https://www.waccamaw.org/single-post/2016/08/10/june-2016-open-meeting-summary-06032016"
categories:
author: ""
source: "wix"
source_guid: ""
---

# June 2016 Open Meeting Summary 06032016

-

Doug Hatcher
- Aug 10, 2016
- 5 min read

Tribal Open Meeting Summary 06/03/2016 held at the Tribal Office in Aynor, SC

1.

CM’s Dalton, Mark, Homer, and Rick present. CM Susan arrived later in the meeting.

2.

Open Forum held.

3.

May minutes read

4.

Mark motioned to accept; Dalton seconded

5.

Homer-yes, Mark-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-yes

6.

Financial Report

7.

General Fund: $9167.03

8.

Building Fund: $3976.75

9.

Old Business

10.

Cemetery Trustees Update

11.

Wayne T’s email read stating Linda A, Richard T, Wayne T, and Joey W as trustees

12.

Wayne T: Elder Dan will be cemetery manager, Ms. Staples needs to be voted on for trusteeship

13.

Wayne T: there is a cemetery fund

14.

Dalton: can we get a copy of the trustees’ paperwork?

15.

Wayne T: sure

16.

Allowing Chief Hatcher Total Associate Membership Application Control

17.

Dalton: suggest to allow him to hand out and approve applications as he sees fit for Associate membership; they come to Council after one year for permanent membership

18.

Homer agreed, as did Mark

19.

Mark motioned to accept Dalton’s suggestion; Rick seconded

20.

Homer-yes, Mark-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-yes

21.

New Business

22.

Committee Reports

23.

Grants: Michelle

24.

SCAC: should hear back about grant 6/23-7/7

25.

Pauwau: Michelle

26.

Ongoing: PSA’s, Ads, Save-the-Date cards

27.

Looking for Volunteers; get in touch with the committee

28.

Constitution: Dalton

29.

Newest copy of the constitution available for everyone to view

30.

Needs a ballot sheet and then it’s ready to send out for a vote

31.

Buildings & Grounds: Larry

32.

Discussed new locks and coded deadbolts for tribal office

33.

Dalton suggested putting the coded one on the backdoor for handicap

34.

Alan disagreed; backdoor is hard to get in if handicap is by themselves and in a wheelchair

35.

Mark motioned to put 1 keyless lock on front door and 1 deadbolt on the back door; Homer seconded

36.

Homer-yes, Mark-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-yes

37.

Mark: rescind & amend my motion to add a deadbolt to the file room

38.

Homer-yes, Mark-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-yes

39.

Larry: how many keys?

40.

Dalton: start with 12; Council, Chiefs, Donnie, Elders, maybe a few extras

41.

Drum: Rick

42.

Practice next week

43.

Receipts

44.

Tractor: $62.98 Check 1055

45.

Mark motioned; Dalton seconded

46.

Homer-yes, Mark-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-yes

47.

Mower: $40.80 Check 1054

48.

Mark motioned; Dalton seconded

49.

Homer-yes, Mark-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-yes

50.

Membership Fees: Dalton

51.

John T sent out an email to people with suggestions of changes to membership fees

52.

Example: everyone must pay at least $10/year

53.

Some people took issue with them because a lot of people who do the work of the tribe don’t need to pay more

54.

Dalton: do think there needs to be changes

55.

Examples:

56.

Charging a renewal fee for cards

57.

Paying for child cards since they are not usually done

58.

Mark: they pay $20 upfront with their application

59.

Dalton: I don’t care if they don’t pay for their first card

60.

Homer: does it cost a lot to make these cards?

61.

Dalton: no, about $0.50-0.60 each; biggest expense is the printer, which lasts for years

62.

Rick: can see both sides; perhaps look at other organizations and see how they do it (example: masons)

63.

Dalton: difference is you weren’t born a mason

64.

Dalton: initial thought is John T’s proposals are good

65.

Examples of people who wouldn’t have to pay:

66.

65+

67.

In tribal government 12+ years

68.

Donated $600-1000 (12 years’ worth of fees)

69.

Would change the expiration dates to 1-2 years to have a steady income

70.

Rick: Masons don’t blackball you if dues aren’t current; you just can’t participate

71.

Dalton: once your card expired or you became unreachable 3 times, you go to inactive and have 60 days to fix it, else you can’t participate, vote, etc

72.

Once you’re on the roll, you can be contacted by BIA for federal recognition

73.

Other agencies will accept associate membership for full benefits

74.

It’s important to remember that membership fees were originally about participation, not about money

75.

Rick: propose looking at other tribes that have working fee system

76.

Tabled until Chief Hatcher is available

77.

Membership Application Update (child turning 18)

78.

Jonathan Hudnall (pending membership agreement)

79.

Homer: are grandchildren members or can we give them an app?

80.

Dalton: they are already members if they are children of current core members

81.

Chief

82.

SCIAC meeting

83.

Western & Eastern band of Cherokee are trying to do away with all state recognition; SCIAC trying to preserve it

84.

CMA meeting

85.

Group recognition bill died in the House because the legislative session ended

86.

Next year: Hunting & fishing licenses for all recognized Indians & ability to use game parts on crafts

87.

How are we going to handle Associate memberships now with constitution?

88.

Dalton: we ceded power to you

89.

Chief: Who is replacing John T?

90.

Dalton: waited until you got here; constitution changes not in effect yet

91.

Chief: Membership Fees

92.

Dalton went back over earlier suggestions

93.

Chief: Rick- ideas?

94.

Rick: can see both sides; we have to have something we can take back if they don’t pay

95.

Look at other tribes’ or organizations’ working policies & go from there

96.

Chief: Homer- ideas?

97.

Homer: mixed emotions; people have to get off their butt to help

98.

Why should you get your share if you didn’t contribute?

99.

The $10/ year minimum suggestion isn’t bad

100.

Chief: Mark: ideas?

101.

Mark: need a policy to bring in fund for projects

102.

Chief: there’s nothing to stop people from donating, even if they do volunteer

103.

Just feel it’s arrogant to ask those who do volunteer to give more

104.

Susan: have to remember that some people are paid up through Waccamaw Bucks

105.

Chief: Elder Dan: ideas?

106.

Elder Dan: $10 can hurt some, but donations are great

107.

Rick: look at it like a house: have to put in money to make it a great house

108.

Susan: can complicate federal recognition

109.

Chief: how?

110.

Dalton: it could affect percentage of core to non-core

111.

Susan: can we drop people after recognition?

112.

Chief: we have some who live right here in Aynor who won’t come to a meeting or even vote

113.

Rick: what are your feelings about looking at other tribes?

114.

Chief: in some tribes, you pay, else you’re out immediately

115.

Rick: concerns on federal recognition if we got rid of deadweight?

116.

Chief: you have to meet their standards; they don’t decide who is on the roll

117.

Federal petition looked over & genealogy certified

118.

Susan: would like internet access out here; can pull up census records

119.

Michelle: we could scan each file to Drive

120.

Dalton: simplest way would be for a centralized file for all genealogy

121.

Susan: would use the computer to update the genealogy book with the newest members

122.

Susan motioned to have Chief look into DSL cost, taxes, and contract length; Dalton seconded

  1.

123.

Homer-yes, Susan-yes, Mark-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-yes

124.

Chief Hatcher to check on DSL at HTC

125.

Chief suggested getting 1 file the way you want it to look for BIA & get 5-10 people to go through files

126.

Dalton motioned to create a committee to handle this process and remove the restriction on Council members serving as the Chair for this committee; Mark seconded

127.

Homer-yes, Susan-yes, Mark-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-yes

128.

Susan to serve as chair

129.

Chief: would like to send a copy of the new constitution to the BIA

130.

Susan: cost of printing & mailing to eligible voters was $386

131.

Dalton: sent Lindsey S an email about the newsletter; I will do it this time

132.

Letters of Intent need to go in it; send by email to Dalton

133.

Susan

134.

Pauwau Vendor Booths (Information))

135.

Commission for the Blind

136.

Social Security Administration

137.

Veteran’s Administration

138.

Arts & Crafts

139.

Suk: need volunteers to help build

140.

Shingles: 25 sq. ft. (one-half the suk)

141.

10 Willows, with 3”, 10ft long PVC pipe to hold them

142.

Approx. $351 for both

143.

Chief if we take PVC, put it in the ground with cement, place the willow, will it still rot?

144.

Rick: yes, around the cement

145.

Mark: place rebar in the ground so it won’t touch the ground

146.

Rick: perhaps use 4” PVC, use sealer, soak the willows

147.

Will check on different ways

148.

Chief to write out the budget to give to Brookgreen Gardens

149.

Susan: any problem cutting willows off the property?

150.

Larry: no

151.

Susan: nominated Rick Hudnall for CoC; Mark seconded

152.

Homer-yes, Susan-yes, Mark-yes, Dalton-yes

153.

Rick: issued a big thank you to John T for all the work he did

154.

Dalton: reminder: there are a few copies of the new constitution on the table; it’s also available by email

Mark motioned to close the meeting; Homer seconded.

Meeting adjourned 8:30 pm.

Respectfully submitted by Michelle Hatcher on 07/6/16 at 1:00 pm.

[#minutes](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/hashtags/minutes) [#meeting](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/hashtags/meeting)

