---
title: ""
date: "2024-09-28T00:00:00Z"
lastmod: "2024-09-28T00:00:00Z"
url: "https://www.waccamaw.org/single-post/2016/08/10/march-2013-open-meeting-summary-03012013"
categories:
author: ""
source: "wix"
source_guid: ""
---

# March 2013 Open Meeting Summary 03012013

-

Doug Hatcher
- Jul 5, 2016
- 6 min read

Tribal Open Meeting Summary 3/1/2013 held at the Tribal Office in Aynor, SC

1. CoC Scott, and CM's Neal, Susan, Dalton, Richia, and Homer present.

2. February minutes read

            a. Change 3a to redirecting to waccamawindians.us; doing away with waccamaw.org site

            b. Change 6(e)(2)(b) & (d) to Herr: name misspelled twice

            c. Neal motioned to accept with changes; Homer seconded

            d. Neal-yes, Homer-yes, Susan-yes, Richia-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

3. Financial Report: Michelle

            a. General Fund: $4505.88

            b. Building Fund: $2002.29

4. New Business

            a. Council Work Day

                        1. Constitution to be gone through one section at a time

                                    a. Changes can be brought up at meeting

                        2. Application costs to go up to $24 effective 7/1/2013

                                    a. Neal-yes, Homer-yes, Susan-yes, Richia-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

            b. Committee Reports

                        1. Arts & Crafts: Susan

                                    a. No more phone meetings- cost, people talk over each other

                                    b. Anyone can be on committee, but  4 voting members should be from                                                 here

                                    c. To get certificate, you must have paperwork

                                    d. Classes, work day for children & adults

                        2. Working on Proposal for New Membership

                                    a. Yes/ No/ Provisional

                                                1. Reviewed 1 year from time put in- they have to prove merit

                                                            a. then Council votes on app again

                                                1. John T: Why would someone be a yes automatically?

                                                            a. Dalton: some have already shown merit before they                                                               apply, some we've never seen

                                                            b. Dalton: Show commitment before putting app in

                                                            c. Susan: Take Georgia, for example, she worked School                                                                      Day/ Pauwaus before applying

                        3. Grants: Michelle

                                    a. SCAC 3/15- using for School Day

                                    b. Lowe's Community Grant: 3/1/4-30, 6/1-7/30- village

                                    c. Lowe's Education Grant: 8/1-10-15-pauwau

                                    d. Lowe's Small Project Grants: no dates: roof

                        4. Pauwau: Michelle

                                    a. Meeting 3/13: Coastal Ale House @ 6:30pm

                                    b. Have begun confirming demonstrators and key roles

                                    c. Working on budget & coordinating with businesses

                        5. T-shirts: 2nd Chief Cheryl (For John A)

                                    a. 2nd Chief Cheryl read John's email:

                                                1." 1) I need to get Native American Craftsperson certification                                                   from the tribe so I can sell some of my crafts in addition to                                                                     the shirts.  This will have to be done through the tribe as well.                                                      Please instruct me as to how to get this started.

                                                2) I will, upon approval, use the logo as is - no unauthorized                                                      changes will be made to the image provided to me.

                                                3) I will add the words "Pauwau" and / or "Cultural Festival" and /                                                         or  "Indian People" to the shirts and other items at my discretion.

                                                4) All costs and profits concerning this venture are my                                                               responsibility.  The tribe is under no financial obligation, neither                                                  are any revenues assured to the tribe other than the annual pauwau                                                  vendor fee.

                                                5) I will apply as a vendor and pay the same rate as other                                                                      Waccamaw vendors for the pauwau.

                                                6) The shirts and other items with the Waccamaw logo may be sold                                           at other events at my discretion."

                                    b. Susan: problem: our logo: to say that someone can use it at their                                                         discretion, we   should get a percentage

                                    c. Susan: Hofer buys shirts in bulk & will be selling them too

                                                1. 2nd Chief Cheryl: then we should table this

                                    d. Dalton: No problem with him selling shirts anywhere

                                                1. Chief Hatcher: curious why people worried about where he sold                                                        it

                                    e. Dalton: he's probably worried that they won't turn a profit

                                    f. John T: sounds like he'd be paying a vendor fee

                                    g. Susan: think we should wait to see status of Hofer's deal

                                    h. Chief Hatcher: add to policy book so you don't have to argue about it                                                each time

                                    i. Homer: protect ourselves & make sure printer that does it can't/ won't                                                use logo again

                                    j. Work on proposal for logo

                        6. Buildings & Grounds: Neal

                                    a. Work Day last month

                                    b. Trees cut down

                                    c. Files moved into office

                                    d. Work Day each month at 11am- 1st Saturday after open meeting

            c. Membership Files

                        1. Jason Stamp

                                    a. Neal-yes, Homer-yes, Susan-yes, Richia-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

                        2. Lindsey Stamp

                                    a. Neal-yes, Homer-yes, Susan-yes, Richia-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

                        3. John Turner

                                    a. Neal-yes, Homer-yes, Susan-yes, Richia-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

                        4. Ashton Mosteller

                                    a. Neal-yes, Homer-yes, Susan-yes, Richia-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

                        5. Sonya Jeffords

                                    a. Neal-yes, Homer-yes, Susan-yes, Richia-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

                        6. Trevor Seivers

                                    a. auto-member (under 18, mother is member)

                        7. Margit Heissenbeirger

                                    a. Neal-yes, Homer-yes, Susan-yes, Richia-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

                        8. Karl Hofer

                                    a. Neal-yes, Homer-yes, Susan-yes, Richia-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

                        9. Ty Livesay

                                    a. Associate for now

                                    b. Neal-yes, Homer-yes, Susan-yes, Richia-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

            e. Chief Hatcher

                        1. One week of meetings with Hofer & Wolfhart

                                    a. No offer yet; Hofer says Wolfhart will make offer

                        2. Sent minutes/ material to Governing Body (read in meeting)

                                    a. typo: should be 6/6/12

                                    b. 2nd Chief Cheryl: put clause in there about date

                                                1. Chief Hatcher: these are just minutes; by-laws will be written                                                 too

                                    c. Saw Mayor Rhodes; Hofer et al want to come to area

                                                1. think they are more interested in us, but think they believe we                                                             are key to them and doing business here

                                    d. 2nd Chief Cheryl: who composes board?

                                                1. Chief Hatcher: Karl Hofer, Jim Murphy, Chief Hatcher

                                    e. Elder Doug: do we have legal representation?

                                                1. Chief Hatcher: Wolfhart called Hofer & said he'd have a written                                                        proposal for us

                                                2. Least we can get is federal recognition

                                                3. Preparing budget to give to Hofer & Wolfhart that includes                                                    lawyer fees for 2 years

                        3. 2nd Chief Cheryl: are they interested in getting more land for the tribe?

                                    a. Chief Hatcher: yes

                        4. Elder Doug: Are they interested in the hospitality business?

                                    a. Chief Hatcher: yes, that's what IHMS stands for

                                                1. Mayor Rhodes will support us unless we build a motel here

                        5. Elder Frank: can't see where you go wrong

                        6. 2nd Chief Cheryl: selling point: unemployment rate

                        7. Homer: lawyer is in NY? we're here

                                    a. Chief Hatcher: managing partner is there; they pay for it

                        8. Homer: who are you considering here to write proposal?

                                    a. Chief Hatcher: Snowe & Bert von Hermann

                                                1. Homer: we need to give Snowe  money

                        9. DC lobbying firm Alcalde & Fay proposal letter read in meeting

                                    a. Chief Hatcher: they gave 80% certainty

                                    b. Approximate cost: $565,000

                        10. Think people are elected because people like them

                                    a. Contacted Falmouth Institute & asked for quote

                                                1. put in budget & pay people to go to classes

                                    b. Elder Doug: $200 per class per person

                                                1. Chief Hatcher: thinking per hour

                                                            a. Someone could come in, leave early, still get $200

                                                2. 2nd Chief Cheryl: $15/hr & have people bring lunch

                                                            a. Susan: $10/hr

                                                3. Don't think this cost will bother them

                                    c. Council to tell Chief Hatcher who is to attend the class & the rate

                                    d. Chief Hatcher: we'd also have to pay their expenses

                                    e. Elder Hank: is this the same training we went through before?

                                                1. Chief Hatcher: <read course titles>

                                                            a. Comprehensive class; would have to do every couple of                                                                    years

                                    f. Chief Hatcher: questions to be given to Elder Hank to give to Elders

                        11. Closed out report on RV sites

                        12. Executive Order: HDH-03-01-2013-001 Tribal Roll Book Closure

                                    a. Update to 2/27/2013 signatures

                                    b. Susan/ Scott: about files from tonight

                                                1. Chief Hatcher: if you don't think they earned it, then you turn it                                                           down

                                    c. Dalton: also have to watch percentage of core to non-core

                                    d. John T: think it takes away from working associate members

                                                1. Dalton: making a new membership requires a                                                                                     constitutional change; provisional flag doesn't

                                    e. Chief Hatcher: if those fall within guidelines, vote normally

                                                1. Scott: vote next meeting

                        13. Was asked to contact 2 people; you can hear them out

                                    a. Susan: he hasn't followed up

                                    b. Richia/ Homer: We have to hear him out; 30 days

                                    c. Chief Hatcher: okay to act on 1

                        14. Is 1 year set in stone on inactive status?

                                    a. Dalton: pretty much want to appear generous so they have to show why                                             they didn't respond within that year

                                    b. Chief Hatcher: think it should be automatic

                                                1. Dalton: it has to be by vote: pro forma

                                    c. Chief Hatcher: 60-90 days expired with 1-2 reminders & they should be                                            gone

                                                1. Dalton: have to think about all types of people

                                                2. Want it so judge will know they were given adequate notice                                       d. Susan: always in newsletter to contact Iris

                                    e. Dalton: After August, could revisit term; would wait till after federal                                        recognition though

                        15. Homer: Budget & funding Pauwau

                                    a. Are we going to have to pauwau that money?

                                                1. Chief Hatcher: No

                        16. Business Cards

                                    a. Hope they will drop $1M in bank

                                                1. Council would have to manage it

                                                2. Inner thought is to let IHMS manage it

                                                3. Elder Frank: would need a Financial Manager (Elder Jerry:                                                    CPA)

                                    b. Homer: put clause in there that decisions have to be approved by                                           majority of Council

                                    c. Chief Hatcher: give me line-item veto power over your budget

                                                1. 2nd Chief Cheryl: suspension of elections

                                                            a. this Council knows what's going on

                                                            b. things shifting dramatically

                                    d. Dalton: could add clause that says paychecks to government don't go                                                into effect till next election

                                                1. Will probably have to pay government soon- full-time job

                        17. Eagle Feathers

                                    a. Send letter to Senators. Representatives & add Anti-discrimination Law

                                                1. Congress broke that law to break another law

                                                2. Feathers aren't tied to race; they are tied to religion

                                    b. Dalton: consider contacting ACLU

                                                1. Chief Hatcher asked 2nd Chief Cheryl to contact them

            f. Elder Jerry

                        1. Lake Waccamaw Boys & Girls Home: 3/16-3/17

                                    a. proceeds go to home

                                    b. mini-pauwau, antique tractors

Neal motioned to close the meeting; Homer seconded.

Meeting adjourned 8:45 pm.

Respectfully submitted by Michelle Hatcher on 4/2/13 at 3:50 am.

[#minutes](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/hashtags/minutes) [#meeting](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/hashtags/meeting)

