---
title: ""
date: "2024-09-28T00:00:00Z"
lastmod: "2024-09-28T00:00:00Z"
url: "https://www.waccamaw.org/single-post/may-2024-open-meeting-summary"
categories:
author: ""
source: "wix"
source_guid: ""
---

# May 2024 Open Meeting Summary

-

Michelle Hatcher
- May 22, 2024
- 7 min read

Tribal Open Meeting Summary 5/3/2024  held at the tribal office and via Zoom

1.

CM’s Emily, Glenn, Susan, and Marion were present. Elders Larry and Becky were present. 2C Alan acted as a proxy for CoC Dalton. Acting Chief Cheryl and 2C Alan were present. CM Robert arrived late.

2.

Members Nancy J, Steve T, Carol L, Aaron F, Rebecca F, Scott B, Starla C, and Sara R were present. Tim H and Jonathan B. arrived late.

3.

Financial Report (as of 5/1/2024 at 1:13 pm)

4.

General Fund: $40,274.95

5.

Building Fund: $1816.21

6.

Cemetery Fund: $407.00

7.

Old Business

8.

Online Votes

9.

4/7: Tennessee Land Sale to Catawba

10.

Susan: no monetary amount has been set yet

11.

AC Cheryl: motion to proceed with negotiations and determine a minimum amount to accept and if 10% of profits is acceptable

12.

Susan: go with a straight price; it has water, sewer, electricity

13.

The best thing to do is to determine its worth

14.

AC Cheryl: the assessed value is 2/3 of the total value

15.

$10k for how many acres?

16.

Susan: go with the true value

17.

2C Alan: get an appraisal done first

18.

AC Cheryl: why go with $10k if it’s worth $50k?

19.

AC Cheryl: I’m going to sit down with Harris and Smith and determine what they want to do with it

20.

Glenn: I agree with the suggestion to check the offer and then get an appraisal

21.

AC Cheryl: when are the taxes due?

22.

Glenn: we’d have to pay taxes unless they assumed it

23.

Marion: this wasn’t a true vote; just a discussion

24.

AC Cheryl: keep the future profits on the table, with a minimum of $20k?

25.

Susan: minimum of $10k

26.

Glenn: I wouldn’t put a minimum on it yet

27.

Glenn: motion to approach them to get an offer and bring it back to the tribe; Marion seconded

28.

Emily-yes, Glenn-yes, Susan-yes, Marion-yes, 2C Alan (Dalton)-yes

29.

4/23: Give or sell the hot dog trailer to the person willing to cook for us

30.

There was no vote; just a discussion; the consensus was to give it to him

31.

Susan: I talked to Joe (the son) and said to go with a 5-yr contract and renewable

32.

Susan: motion we do a 5-yr renewable contract and let Joe’s dad cook for Pauwau, Family Day, Fishing Day; Marion seconded

33.

Emily-yes, Glenn-yes, Susan-yes, Marion-yes, 2C Alan (Dalton)-yes

34.

Susan: I will write something up for the Tribal Council to review and then send it to him

35.

4/25: Approve April Open Meeting Summary with change

36.

Change: 4(a)(iii)(1) should have included Marion’s YES vote

37.

Emily-yes, Glenn-yes, Susan-yes, Marion-yes, 2C Alan (Dalton)-yes, 2C Alan (Chris)-yes, Robert- abstain

38.

Survey quotes

39.

Glenn: no third quote yet

40.

Susan: I called Spartina and they said to call back in June

41.

We have to do the initial survey (look at the land)

42.

AC Cheryl: I met with Creel, Collins, Lowcountry Land Alliance

43.

They said they could help us with the survey and appraisal

44.

We could have dedicated funds for that reason

45.

Glenn: the one I talked to was 6 weeks out at least

46.

Policy Letters

47.

Susan: Policy Letters were forwarded to the Tribal Council

48.

Has anyone looked at them?

49.

Glenn: not yet; are they online?

50.

Michelle: they are in Drive; the folder was sent to all Council Members

51.

Susan: Be prepared to talk about them next month

52.

Brookgreen Gardens: Susan

53.

We can hold events there (inside if cold), like the SCIAC, a 50-person meeting, or CMA meetings

54.

Waccamaw hosting with tickets

55.

AC Cheryl: sit down and finalize how we want to do it

56.

New Business

57.

AC Cheryl: are the audio/ video cameras on 24/7?

58.

We can’t have a closed meeting (like the Elders meeting today)

59.

AC Cheryl: there are privacy concerns

60.

2C Alan: the only way is to put an in-line switch on it

61.

Glenn- you can unplug it

62.

2C Alan: is there anything needed to reset if you do that?

63.

Glenn: possibly

64.

Elder Becky: does that kill audio?

65.

Glenn: it kills all video and audio

66.

AC Cheryl: do we want a policy to turn it off during meetings?

67.

2C Alan: For open meetings, leave it on for backup

68.

Glenn: just unplug it

69.

Elder Larry: that might work

70.

Susan: turn the audio off; if we turn the cameras off, someone in the area could come in and take something and we wouldn’t know

71.

I think it’s how the white shirts went missing

72.

2C Alan: put a sign up saying that people are under surveillance as a deterrent

73.

Susan: in SC, only one person needs to know

74.

2C Alan: it’s just to kill it for closed meetings

75.

Susan: we still need to know who’s in the building

76.

2C Alan: 1 person is the bare minimum; I think people need to know they are being recorded

77.

Some are okay with that; some aren’t

78.

Glenn: I’m okay with putting up signs

79.

Susan: just remember to plug them back in

80.

Tim H: put something over the lens

81.

AC Cheryl: keep it as is and unplug it during closed meetings

82.

Committee Reports

83.

Buildings & Grounds: Glenn

84.

Need to finish the ditch

85.

Richard T spent 6 hours in the cemetery

86.

Marion C moved ashes from the pond level

87.

Also, assembled tables, pulled weeds, painted posts

88.

Thank David for the sewer dumps near the office

89.

AC Cheryl: stripped cedar trees; need more help

90.

The next time will be during the summer solstice

91.

Marion: will be here 5/16-19

92.

AC Cheryl: the Catawba do not need our willows

93.

Arts & Crafts: Susan

94.

Classes at Brookgreen; Natalie would like us to have them there in the Fall

95.

AC Cheryl: 10/24 event at Brookgreen

96.

Ronnie F did a demo, Susan helped with plants and arts & crafts history

97.

Grants: AC Cheryl

98.

Donnelly Grant

99.

We have a partner meeting next week to review the budget

100.

The grant got submitted without us being able to review it

101.

We may have to do it with different partners or resubmit in July

102.

Catalyst Grant submitted

103.

We should hear back in July

104.

EPA Community Change Grant

105.

SC Office of Resilience, Georgetown Rise, Sustain Coastal

106.

Meeting next week with SCOOR; we have met with OPR (Office of Parks & Recreation)

107.

This can be used for a community center, bathhouse, or educational facility

108.

Pauwau: Michelle

109.

Looking for pictures of our older members

110.

Start selling ads/ memorial pages for the program book

111.

Working on demonstrators to finalize the flier

112.

Next meeting is 5/9/2024 @ 6:30 pm via Zoom

113.

CCU Archives: Rebecca

114.

This is not a CCU project

115.

Start submitting photos before 1995- the grounds, Dimery settlement

116.

Submit oral history, diaries, and arts & crafts without plastic that are older than 25 years

117.

Historical Markers: the Pine Level School

118.

We can assist with the paperwork

119.

Horry County Preservation Commission: working on a cemetery project

120.

AC Cheryl: I’ve worked with them on this project

121.

Rebecca: they’re updating it; AC Cheryl got a grant through the state

122.

Use ground-penetrating radar to find sites that weren’t marked

123.

Susan: do you know of the marker we get on 5/20 @ 5 pm?

124.

AC Cheryl: I  spoke to the Historical Preservation Society

125.

It will be at the new main courthouse by Beaty Street by the Register of Deeds & Assessor’s offices

126.

Files: 2C Alan

127.

 Files turned in for honorary:

128.

Tammy Adams (honorary)

129.

Melissa Garner (honorary)

130.

Files turned in for honorary to full, not voted on)

131.

Aaron Fecher (honorary to full, spousal)

132.

Rebecca Fecher (honorary to full, core)

133.

Coby Fecher (honorary to full, core)

134.

Newsletter: Michelle

135.

I sent the newsletter to the Tribal Council for approval

136.

One change has been made

137.

Longhouse Project

138.

David H will be here for 4-5 days just before the summer solstice

139.

He needs volunteers to help

140.

Reminder: Remaining Fire Ceremony dates for 2024: 6/22, 9/21, 12/14

141.

2C Alan: Pickens Pow wow on 5/6

142.

I will be unavailable 5/8-15 (personal days)

143.

AC Cheryl: embargoed item to discuss in closed session with Tribal Council

144.

We can discuss it by email

145.

Dr. Sara Rich: I’ll bring pictures next time to show everyone

146.

I went with Craig Sasser from Fish & Wildlife and Long in Sandy Island

147.

We collected a couple of pottery pieces: crudely decorated, gritty, and charred on the inside

148.

It warrants further investigation between the Waccamaw River & Sandy Island

149.

Flat-bottom canoe: we can see one of the ends sticking out of the bank

150.

It’s symmetrical, about 15-20 ft long

151.

Marion: is it protected?

152.

Dr. Rich: no, only 3 of us know where it’s at

153.

There is a process to go through for protection

154.

Susan: I met with a lady from SC Thrive who asked if we had sponsors

155.

I told her no

156.

She said they might pay for $1000- $1500 for a book

157.

They can help us find more sponsors

158.

Help with paperwork for Medicare, Medicaid, SNAP

159.

Put this on the June agenda for different programs

160.

Maybe have them come out once a month?

161.

They are working with a church on grants for kids’ meals

162.

They want to know if we have kids who could benefit from this program during the summer

163.

AC Cheryl: maybe coordinate it during the solstice?

164.

Susan: instead of the open meeting?

165.

AC Cheryl: that may be the best time to do it

166.

Susan: if they can get the money, they can help get food delivered to our kids

167.

AC Cheryl: can we give out kids’ names with parents’ consent?

168.

Marion: I think we need parental consent on it

169.

Susan: of course

170.

Susan: push to FB once we know

171.

2C Alan: still bring her here for the meeting, but also the solstice/ equinox

172.

Marion: I thought the interpretative trail grand opening went well; thanks to tribal members for coming out

173.

AC Cheryl: close to 75 people were out here; it was well-received and got some media attention

174.

We definitely need more support to build it out with more funding

175.

Schedule: 1 hour after sunrise, 1 hour before sunset, donations accepted

176.

Susan: Ribbon-cutting with the Chamber of Commerce and others to get our name out there

177.

AC Cheryl: try in September with other events (autumn equinox)

178.

Susan: they do it on weekends

179.

AC Cheryl: try the Friday before the equinox

180.

Susan: I think we should stay with CoC and get our name out for different things

181.

It’s better for us & keeps us in the limelight

182.

Invite them to the pauwau

183.

Marion: they could hold more advertisements for the pauwau

Susan motioned to close the meeting; Emily seconded.

Emily-yes, Glenn-yes, Susan-yes, Marion-yes, 2C Alan (Dalton)-yes, Robert- yes

The meeting adjourned at 8:40 p.m.

Respectfully submitted by Michelle Hatcher on 5/20/2024 at 11:49 pm.

Tags:

- [meeting](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/meeting)
- [Native](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/native)
- [#Waccamaw](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/waccamaw-1)

