---
title: ""
date: "2024-10-12T00:00:00Z"
lastmod: "2024-10-12T00:00:00Z"
url: "https://www.waccamaw.org/single-post/2017/01/11/december-2016-open-meeting-summary"
categories:
author: ""
source: "wix"
source_guid: ""
---

# December 2016 Open Meeting Summary

-

Doug Hatcher
- Jan 11, 2017
- 5 min read

Updated: Oct 12, 2024

Tribal Open Meeting Summary 12/2/2016 held at the Tribal Office in Aynor, SC



1.

CM’s Dalton, John, Robert, and CoC Rick present. 2nd Chief Cheryl served as a proxy for Susan and Mark.

2.

Alan F: CMA meeting/ jobs education meeting

3.

You can get certified if you own your own business

4.

Will have a scholarship guide in mid-Jan

5.

GED program for those interested

6.

2nd Chief Cheryl: do they work with the Small Business Association?

7.

Alan: unsure

8.

October minutes read

9.

No quorum

10.

John T: motions that minutes are read & voted online ahead of time; Rick seconded

11.

2nd Chief Cheryl (Susan)-yes, 2nd Chief Cheryl (Mark)-yes, John-yes, Robert-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-yes

12.

Financial Report

13.

General Fund: $18,236.85

14.

Building Fund: $4449.30

15.

John T: Cemetery Fund: $541.28

16.

Old Business

17.

Cemetery Encroachment: 2nd Chief Cheryl

18.

Hearing contested by Mr. James’ attorney; says tribe is a corporation; may have to go to municipal court

19.

John T: can trustee not file on behalf of the cemetery as an individual?

20.

2nd Chief Cheryl: yes, not just one, but all of them

21.

Investor Proposal by John T

22.

Each $1000 invested, you would reap reward

23.

It could be a big gamble

24.

Numbers in proposal are arbitrary right now

25.

Terms of repayment can be dictated

26.

Could do the same for the parking project

27.

Elder Doug: why can’t you put separate business in name of WIP and let it draw interest?

28.

John T: most of us can’t run businesses

29.

Elder Doug: federal recognition has been a 25year deal; need enough money to get it

30.

Rick: any outside investors?

31.

John T: may not have as many legal ramifications with tribal members

32.

Dalton: good idea; think amounts should be smaller to make it accessible

33.

Alan: concern that outside investors could try to take over

34.

Dalton: make shares nontransferable; share of profits- make it their share of distribution+1

35.

2nd Chief Cheryl: why not beneficial?

36.

Dalton: don’t want to be paying them out for years from now

37.

Elder Doug: agreement could be a %, but it has to be attractive

38.

New Business

39.

Committee Reports

40.

Arts & Crafts: 2nd Chief Cheryl (Susan)

41.

12/10 Class to create chokers: @2pm: $35/ person, includes supplies

42.

Suk at Brookgreen: thanks to Susan, Marion, Rick, Cheryl

43.

Grants:  Michelle

44.

Finalizing SCAC paperwork

45.

Looking at possible ANA Grants

46.

2nd Chief Cheryl: look into USDA Rural Development for funding

47.

Pauwau: Michelle

48.

Outbrief Volunteer Dinner held 11/12; thanks to all who attended

49.

Demographics Sheets worked well for first time, though need relocation on grounds

50.

2nd Chief Cheryl: used data from sheets to create Sample Segmentation Sheet to give a better visual idea of where people are coming from and what ages they are

51.

Meeting: 2nd Thursday in Jan at tribal office at 6pm

52.

Volunteer signup sheets on office table, can also let someone on committee know

53.

Buildings & Grounds: Rick

54.

Larry J resigned as Chair; committee nominated Neal R

55.

Thanks to Larry J for his hard work

56.

John T: electric?

57.

Rick: working on getting it up to code and raising the dance circle

58.

John T: move the circle?

59.

Was the backhoe/ dump truck looked into?

60.

Neal R: place off Hwy 905 has heavy-duty equipment

61.

Track hoe: deliver and use for 1 week: $1800

62.

John T: increasing outlets to 30

63.

Rick: yes, and food vendors with electric boxes too

64.

2nd Chief Cheryl: what about cement?

65.

Rick: circle needs to be elevated first

66.

John T: sounded like the whole grounds, but at least the RV spots

67.

Rick: do we have a contact with GSW&S for sod?

68.

Elder Dan: Chris

69.

Drum: Rick

70.

Alan: 2nd Chief Phil has built a stand

71.

Parking Lot & Shuttle: John T

72.

Talked to Ray & will talk to cycle places to check for interest

73.

Looking at Feb 1 start date

74.

Rick: check into Hogowner’s Association

75.

Fuel Receipts

76.

Fuel: $28.00 Check 557

77.

2nd Chief Cheryl (Susan)-yes, 2nd Chief Cheryl (Mark)-yes, John-yes, Robert-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-yes

78.

Membership: Jeania

79.

Robyn Deerchaser inquired about her & her two children’s memberships

80.

She sent us a letter (shown) signed by her and her children that resigned their memberships

81.

Alan: she also joined Pee Dee tribe

82.

Dalton: she would have to reapply, but now under Chief control

83.

Under Review List

84.

Offer them a second chance and allow them to appeal (for $25 fee)

85.

Old and new honorary membership types explained

86.

John T: motion being accepted as a full member requires 1 year’s fees paid

87.

Dalton: would make it a policy letter or resolution because Susan is doing a drop dead date on files & I would encourage an annual ID card

88.

2nd Chief Cheryl: would do 2 or 4 year

89.

John T: pre or post-pay?

90.

Dalton: either is fine

91.

John: rescind my motion

92.

Dalton, Susan to work on resolution

93.

Rick: how difficult is it to send out a letter 2 months before cards expire?

94.

Rick: do we start everyone at the same time with same date?

95.

Elder Dan: how many are paying now?

96.

Michelle: some are

97.

Rick: suggest starting in Jan and renew on DoB

98.

Michelle: current resolution starts in August each year; would need to be rewritten or folded into another resolution

99.

File Sign-Out Form: to remove files, scan to pc, return when done

100.

Came in handy at Pauwau

101.

Retired & Denial letters created

102.

Maybe a Request of Address Change too

103.

Inactive List: 8 names

104.

Rick: does anyone know the people on the list?

105.

Richard T to talk to brother in-law and get back in Jan

106.

Rick: the other 7 names are up for removal; Dalton motioned; Rick seconded

107.

2nd Chief Cheryl (Susan)-yes, 2nd Chief Cheryl (Mark)-yes, John-yes, Robert-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-yes

108.

Membership Updates to full status

109.

John motioned to updated the following files; Dalton seconded:

110.

Kenneth Stone

111.

Jean Hayes

112.

Voting: Elders

113.

Received 3 ballots postmarked on time

114.

Council: Dalton: 3; Rick: 3, John:1, Robert: 1, Neal: 2, Jeania B: 2

115.

Won’t change election results

116.

Constitution: yes: 3

117.

Special Needs Fishing Day

118.

Elder Doug: start fundraising now

119.

Rick suggests Elders keep the money

120.

Dalton: in a separate account?

121.

Or have it earmarked in their check memo line

122.

Alan F: will talk to DNR about trailers

123.

Mark’s email: Rick

124.

Mark sent an email to me and requested I forward it to Council

125.

John T: it was proposed that we give gifts to Donnie & Michelle for their work

126.

Propose we give them $200 each from general fund; Robert seconded

127.

Dalton: puts me in awkward position

128.

2nd Chief Cheryl (Susan)-yes, 2nd Chief Cheryl (Mark)-yes, John-yes, Robert-yes, Dalton-abstain, Rick-yes

129.

 Chief Hatcher/ Susan to sign checks when they return

130.

2nd Chiefs

131.

Cheryl: more on USDA grant: $10,000-$500,000, smaller amounts get priority

132.

Used for training, technology, land, removal of buildings, roads

133.

Status: open

134.

Michelle: cutoff date?

135.

2nd Chief Cheryl: we’ll need to go to Grants.gov to view full grant





Robert motioned to close the meeting; John seconded.

Meeting adjourned 8:45 pm.

Respectfully submitted by Michelle Hatcher on 1/10/17 at 1:45 pm.







[#meeting](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/hashtags/meeting) [#minutes](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/hashtags/minutes)

