---
title: ""
date: "2024-09-27T00:00:00Z"
lastmod: "2024-09-27T00:00:00Z"
url: "https://www.waccamaw.org/single-post/2017/06/04/june-2017-open-meeting-summary"
categories:
author: ""
source: "wix"
source_guid: ""
---

# June 2017 Open Meeting Summary

-

Doug Hatcher
- Jun 4, 2017
- 4 min read

Tribal Open Meeting Summary 6/2/2017 held at the Tribal Office in Aynor, SC

1.

CM’s John, Robert, Mark, Dalton, and CoC Rick present. 2nd Chief Cheryl acted as proxy for Susan.

2.

CoC gave arrow plaque to Jewell & Doug for their help with Special Needs Fishing Day

3.

Financial Report

4.

General Fund: $8348.86

5.

Building Fund: $1372.65

6.

Cemetery Fund: $531.26

7.

Council was given copies of all transactions made in the last 30 days

8.

Online Votes

9.

5/15 Replace golf cart batteries for $500

10.

Robert-yes, Susan (Cheryl)-yes, John-yes, Mark-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-yes

11.

5/22 Postpone replacing golf cart batteries because of mower deck problems

12.

Robert-yes, Susan (Cheryl)-yes, John-yes, Mark-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-yes

13.

5/22 Make Alan Faver & Joey Watford Chief’s assistants on state legislation

14.

Robert-yes, Susan (Cheryl)-yes, John-yes, Mark-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-yes

15.

5/25 Allow Mark to purchase tractor mower deck for $700

16.

Robert-yes, Susan (Cheryl)-yes, John-yes, Mark-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-yes

17.

Mark: still have $700; the deck we wanted to purchase was sold, but new one would cost $1170

18.

6/1 Dissolve B&G Committee; re-examine later if needed

19.

Robert-yes, Susan (Cheryl)-yes, John-yes, Mark-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-yes

20.

6/1 Put Cemetery Trustees in charge of cemetery upkeep

21.

Robert-yes, Susan (Cheryl)-yes, John-yes, Mark-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-yes

22.

Rick: That doesn’t mean the trustees have to do the work; just schedule the work day & make it happen

23.

6/1 Approve Larry J as Elder

24.

Robert-no, John- no, Mark- no, Dalton- no, Rick- no

25.

Old Business

26.

Cemetery Encroachment

27.

2nd Chief Cheryl: not sure if the two attorneys have met yet

28.

Roof Case Update

29.

2nd Chief Cheryl: nothing new

30.

May Minutes Read

31.

John: remove Homer from 2(b)

32.

Mark motioned to accept with the change; Dalton seconded

33.

Robert-yes, Susan (Cheryl)-yes, John-yes, Mark-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-yes

34.

John T: stainless steel mentioned last month by Elder Doug is too large in his opinion, 9x9 & has one leg broken

35.

New Business

36.

2nd Chief Phil: PA System: used for ETV benefit & it works great

37.

Rick: can cables be buried at the circle?

38.

2nd Chief Phil: next buy are the cables to do that

39.

Alan: CMA education/ jobs training: now have business forms

40.

They are redoing their book in August

41.

Native American Learning Center offers free online courses

42.

Going to set up a state scholarship program

43.

We will try to get large corporations to donate

44.

Want it to be on a need basis rather than grade basis

45.

2nd Chief Cheryl: Wisewoman Project

46.

Through SEIAC who has done presentations here before

47.

Screenings for Native women coordinated with DHEC

48.

2nd Chief Cheryl: Salesforce Meeting held 5/25

49.

Can have up to 10 user licenses

50.

We decided on Developer (Doug), Filekeeper (Cheryl), Genealogy (Susan), Secretary (Michelle), Chief, CoC, CoE, Bookkeeper (Lori)

51.

Everyone will have permissions, whether they are one of the people licensed or not

52.

We are migrating Access to Salesforce platform now

53.

It should be bare bones working in 3 months & functional in 6-12 months

54.

It will tie in to the website (and vice versa)

55.

2nd Chief Cheryl: LLC

56.

Need agent’s signature (Chief)

57.

Need to write the operator agreement; we found some great templates online to get us started

58.

Need $110 to file the paperwork with the SoS

59.

Will check with the Trademark Division on cost, information, etc. about trademarking the LLC name (that’s a separate action than creating the LLC itself)

60.

Does it have to use a different logo than the tribe?

61.

Check with Susan since she has looked into trademarks before; do further research

62.

2nd Chief Cheryl: Harry F Turner (92y/o): was with him last Sat in Veterans’ parade

63.

He was on the USS Bush when it was attacked 4/6/45; ship sunk; survived 18 hours alone

64.

Want to extend my appreciation to him

65.

Committee Reports

66.

Arts & Crafts: 2nd Chief Phil

67.

Nothing new

68.

Mark: will bring turkey feathers for wrapping

69.

Grants: Michelle

70.

Nothing new; just waiting on response from SCAC

71.

PW: Michelle

72.

Meeting 6/8/2017

73.

John: Are flyers being put in hotels, rental agencies?

74.

Mark: put an ad in the tourist books that are put in hotels, agencies, etc.

75.

Rick: how about school flyers?

76.

2nd Chief Cheryl: can’t solicit to school, except for field trip information

77.

Michelle: Hog Heaven fundraiser will pay for the billboards

78.

7 tickets left as of Monday

79.

Held 6/13

80.

Mark: are we asking for new vendors?

81.

Michelle, others: we’re always asking for new vendors as we attend other Pauwaus & events

82.

If you are at an event & see a great vendor, get their card & bring it to our attention

83.

Michelle: Have asked Nestle for 6200 bottles (16.9oz size) of water

84.

Should have an answer in next month

85.

If given to us in any amount, they will probably be labeled “not for resale”

86.

PW Budget needs approval: hay bale price will be off because we’re building benches; tax on hotels has changed

87.

Secretary’s Note: PW Budget off also because of Lodging; resubmitted to Council 6/3

88.

John: Mark is expanding his tent to add popcorn, cotton candy,  tacos, chicken bog

89.

Need more manpower, 8-10 people

90.

Jeri: do you have a popcorn & cotton candy machine?

91.

Mark: we have a popcorn machine, but don’t want to mess with cotton candy machine in the tent

92.

Need a better system for the veterans’ feathers

93.

Michelle: We can discuss it Thursday at the PW Meeting, join us

94.

Buildings & Grounds: Rick

95.

Voted to dissolve it on 6/1

96.

On 6/1, we spent $90 to repair Donnie’s mower (receipt presented)

97.

Cemetery Cleanup was done last week by Wayne T, Joey W, & more; thanks to the Men of Faith

98.

Drum: Rick

99.

Nothing new

100.

2nd Chief Phil: making new sticks

101.

Parking Lot & Shuttle: John

102.

Contacted every NC/SC Harley group listed, but no one came

103.

Postpone until we have a better system

104.

Think we may be too far out from beach

105.

2nd Chiefs

106.

Phil: Need a ceremony for the feathers; shouldn’t be sidelined

107.

Need a better system & announcement when/ where they are being given out

108.

Honorary Membership

109.

Jeri Hunter

110.

Michelle told Rick that Jeri was told only Chief could present it; 2nd Chief Phil said he could too

111.

Robert-yes, Susan (Cheryl)-yes, John-yes, Mark-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-yes

Mark motioned to close the meeting; Robert seconded.

Meeting adjourned 7:45 pm.

Respectfully submitted by Michelle Hatcher on 6/3/17 at 12:11 am.

[#meeting](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/hashtags/meeting) [#minutes](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/hashtags/minutes)

