---
title: ""
date: "2024-09-28T00:00:00Z"
lastmod: "2024-09-28T00:00:00Z"
url: "https://www.waccamaw.org/single-post/february-2023-open-meeting-summary"
categories:
author: ""
source: "wix"
source_guid: ""
---

# February 2023 Open Meeting Summary

-

Michelle Hatcher
- Feb 22, 2023
- 5 min read

Tribal Open Meeting Summary 2/3/2023  held at the tribal office and via Zoom

1.

CM’s Susan, Chris, Marion, Marie, Robert, and Glenn were present. VC Cheryl served as a proxy for CoC Dalton and conducted the meeting. 2C Alan and John were present. Elder Larry was present. Chief Hatcher was present.

2.

Members present include Randi C, David B, Debbie B, James G, Aaron F, Rebecca F, Joshua W, Nancy J, Clay G, and Starla C.

3.

Financial Report (as of 2/2/2023 at 6:15 pm)

  1.

General Fund: $26,094.05

  2.

Building Fund: $3267.00

  3.

Cemetery Fund: $407.00

4.

Old Business

  1.

Online Votes

    1.

1/17 Allow David H to bring trees for the longhouse to the tribal grounds

      1.

Susan-yes, Chris-yes, Marion-yes, Glenn-yes, Marie-yes, Robert-yes, VC Cheryl (Dalton)- yes

    2.

1/25 Approve January 2023 Open Meeting Summary with change

      1.

2 should be Clayton G, not J

      2.

Susan-yes, Chris-yes, Marion-yes, Glenn-yes, Marie-yes, Robert-yes, VC Cheryl (Dalton)- yes

5.

New Business

  1.

Committee Reports

    1.

Buildings & Grounds: Glenn

      1.

Work Day 2/4/2023 at 9 am

    2.

Arts & Crafts: Susan

      1.

I was approached by the director of OLLI (Osher Lifelong Learning Institute)

        1.

Want to partner up to do classes

        2.

This could lead to more opportunities for us

      2.

2C Alan: I have grapevines if anyone needs them

    3.

Grants: VC Cheryl

      1.

Working on a number of grants for community projects

        1.

CCU is working on a sustainability grant

        2.

Development of a museum exhibit

      2.

Michelle: I received an email about a grant opportunity for setting up EV stations

        1.

VC Cheryl: it could come from FEMA too because we’re on the evacuation route

      3.

Marion C: Amazon is ending Smile; they will possibly help for a few months

    4.

Pauwau: Michelle

      1.

Working on budget

      2.

Need a story on the history & traditions of the drum for the program book

        1.

2C Alan: talk to Andy SPell about the drum

      3.

Like the idea of Jr HM/HL as long as they are interested

    5.

Drum: Glenn

      1.

Follow-up with Red Oak: not taking contracts this year

        1.

On ladies drumming: they are not opposed, but not for

      2.

Edisto said no women on the drum

        1.

Andy said he wouldn’t dance if the drum were female

      3.

Chris H: I can call a man about being HM who has a drum

        1.

Michelle: check his availability and pricing

    6.

Files: VC Cheryl

      1.

Meeting 2/4 at 1 pm - until for work day

      2.

Susan: expiration date on Honorary Membership

        1.

I suggest 5 or 7 years to keep from making new cards/ certificates every 2 years

        2.

VC Cheryl: we were trying to decide on who determines the length

        3.

2C Alan: if they want to really be a member, the number of years on the certificate won’t matter

        4.

Marie: Council can ask at any time that the TRB be opened

        5.

I suggest making it 5 years and then removing them if they aren’t active

        6.

Chief Hatcher: why would Council care about the number of years?

        7.

Marion: I don’t think it needs an expiration date

        8.

Marie: we need to be able to track them

        9.

VC Cheryl: Make it 5 years; we will vote in committee tomorrow

        10.

2C Alan: after 5 years and not proven themselves, I’d vote against them for full membership

        11.

2C John: if honorary is at the discretion of the Chief, he has the ability to remove them

        12.

Susan: they also signed a membership agreement

        13.

2C John: if the term is at the discretion of the Chie, why not make it permanent?

        14.

Chief Hatcher: they’d still have the certificate

        15.

Marie motioned; Susan seconded to make honorary membership a 5-year term

        16.

Susan-yes, Chris-yes, Marion-yes, Glenn-yes, Marie-yes, Robert-yes, VC Cheryl (Dalton)- yes

        17.

Chief Hatcher: it would have to be a joint resolution

      3.

Marion: motion to open the TRB for Dr. Clary, Dr. Rich, Dr. Dillian

        1.

Susan: hold until the meeting tomorrow and have the percentage of core: non-core

        2.

We can discuss this by email

        3.

Marion: motion rescinded

      4.

Chief Hatcher: who is in charge of ID cards?

        1.

Susan: we haven’t picked a new chair yet

    7.

Newsletter

      1.

Susan: Lindsey S said she would do it if contacted

        1.

Tribal Secretary’s note: discussed it with her on 2/18; she will do it

  2.

Family Day 2/18

    1.

2C John: we will need a vegan option

    2.

Chief Hatcher: we need a grill or a pull-behind grill

    3.

VC Cheryl: motion to buy a grill for future events with a lock and chain after pricing them out

      1.

Marie: I will donate the lock and chain

      2.

Marion: I have a friend who makes them; need to know the size

      3.

2C Alan: and charcoal vs gas vs hybrid

      4.

VC Cheryl: I retract the motion until the price limit is set

        1.

Chris H and Marion C to get prices and find sizes

    4.

2C John: I’ll call my cousin to see if he’ll bring his

      1.

2C John: Richard will bring the grill out

    5.

Elder Larry: I have a couple of contacts too

  3.

VC Cheryl

    1.

3/18: Spring Equinox

      1.

I discussed with Marion about doing some plant identification and fishing

      2.

The goal is to get our young people engaged

  4.

2C Alan

    1.

I’m waiting on a call from the state museum

    2.

I met with the Chicora in January about joining us

      1.

The Fechers and Watts are here

        1.

They will come in as honorary and go from there

        2.

7-20 want to join us

  5.

Joshua W: 3rd year at USC

    1.

Excited about upcoming projects and I want to contribute

  6.

Rebecca, Aaron, Colby F

    1.

Rebecca is a history teacher in NC; interested in history and language

    2.

VC Cheryl: SC Indigenous Education Task Force: correcting the narrative in our locality and then helping other tribes

    3.

Aaron is a teacher of sociology and works for the US government

      1.

I want to jump in and help out

    4.

Chief Hatcher: before you can become a full member, you will have to rescind your Chicora membership

      1.

Rebecca F: we have

  7.

2C John

    1.

I’m still working on the CCU Archiving Project

    2.

You can donate items or have them documented and returned

  8.

VC Cheryl

    1.

We will continue the community planning project tomorrow, 11-1 pm

    2.

We need to develop a steering committee made up of tribal members

    3.

We need to look at the grant guidelines

    4.

Ideas: museum exhibit, plant identification, rain gardens

  9.

Chief Hatcher

    1.

All Chiefs & First Ladies were invited to the State of the State address

      1.

The reception was at the Governor’s mansion

      2.

Looks like we’re going to be able to put a few things on the table

      3.

I met with Attorney General and told him that he needed to change the way Indians are treated

        1.

Now we have a meeting with him

      4.

Superintendent of Education: I told her that there are no recognized tribes in the textbooks

        1.

She was surprised; I put her in touch with Dr. Rich

    2.

SCIDC

      1.

I found out that the grant they got was $80k in arrears

        1.

I removed the director and assistant; I hired a new director

        2.

I want to have an election and have them elect a leader

        3.

SCIDC is responsible for funding education for Native children

    3.

I need to discuss graveyards with the AG

    4.

Glenn: did Maranda and Bill get in touch with you?

      1.

Chief Hatcher: yes; some calls were getting returned

  10.

Elders

    1.

Chief Hatcher: don’t you have to trim the hooves on a horse?

      1.

Elder Larry: yes

      2.

Chief Hatcher: what happens to ones in the desert?

        1.

Elder Larry: they trim themselves

    2.

VC Cheryl: how hard would it be to bring the horse here for the Equinox?

      1.

Elder Larry: weather permitting, I will bring it

      2.

Nancy J: it would look good if Council/ the governing body got on the horse

  11.

Chris H

    1.

Next pauwau meeting?

      1.

Michelle: Thursday, 2/9 at 6:30 pm

      2.

Chris: contact got back with me; he’s 47 miles away

        1.

Think you could take the cost of lodging and cash to pay him

        2.

Roughly $750 + $223

        3.

They would use a hand drum on Thursday/ Friday

        4.

They would use a regular drum on Saturday/ Sunday

        5.

Michelle: we’ll continue the discussion in the pauwau meeting

  12.

Chief Hatcher

    1.

Please sign the 2023 pauwau program book for  Judge Bernie

6.

Next meeting 3/3/2023

Marion motioned to close the meeting; Susan seconded.

	Susan- yes, Glenn-yes, Marie-yes, Robert-yes, Marion-yes, VC Cheryl (Dalton)- yes

The meeting adjourned at 8:47 pm.

Respectfully submitted by Michelle Hatcher on 2/22/2023 at 3:56 pm.

Tags:

- [meeting](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/meeting)
- [minutes](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/minutes)
- [equinox](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/equinox)
- [native](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/native-1)
- [FamilyDay](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/familyday)

