---
title: "January 2025 Open Meeting Summary"
date: "2025-01-19T17:25:54Z"
lastmod: "2025-03-31T00:00:00Z"
url: "https://www.waccamaw.org/single-post/january-2025-open-meeting-summary"
categories:
  - "Open Meeting Minutes 2025"
  - "Open Meetings"
  - "Tribal Meetings"
author: "Michelle Hatcher"
source: "wix"
source_guid: "678d34fa2427d7fb431901d3"
image: "./featured.png"
---

# January 2025 Open Meeting Summary

-

Michelle Hatcher
- Jan 19
- 11 min read

Tribal Open Meeting Summary 1/10/2025  held via Zoom

1.

CM’s Glenn, Rebecca, Marion, Emily, and CoC Susan were present. 2C Alan served as Chris’ proxy until he arrived.

2.

Members Debbie B, Nancy J, Clayton G, Aaron F, Lisa L, Julie W, Starla C, Dr. Dillian, Tim H were present. Austin S was present as a guest.

3.

CoC Susan thanked CM Marion for running the meeting while she was out and congratulated elected and re-elected CM’s

4.

Financial Report (as of 1/8/2025 at 12:07 pm)

  1.

General Fund: $43,796.77

  2.

Building Fund: $1169.68

  3.

Cemetery Fund: $447.00

  4.

Grant Fund: $22,792.08

5.

Old Business

  1.

Approve the December 2024 Open meeting summary

    1.

CM Glenn motioned to accept; CM Rebecca seconded

      1.

Marion-yes, Emily-yes, Glenn-yes, 2C Alan (Chris)-yes, Rebecca-yes, Susan-absent

    2.

Secretary’s Note 1/15: an error in attendance was discovered after the meeting and Council was asked to revote on the summary with the change for February’s meeting

  2.

TN Land

    1.

AC Cheryl: waiting for Catawba Chief’s secretary to get back with us to work something out based on the corrected deed (pg 3)

      1.

The only way is to partner and we hold ownership and let them develop it

      2.

Meet possibly next week

      3.

We would still need insurance for TN land based on TN laws

      4.

They might be receptive to a development park and let people stay there

      5.

I hope Attorney Smith will be on the call

  3.

SC Thrive: contact in a couple of weeks

  4.

Bathhouse: we need 3 bids from licensed contractors

6.

New Business

  1.

Receipts: hold until February so Council can see them

  2.

Accounting: Nathan Skipper; waiting on a quote from Smith Sapp CPAs

  3.

Horry County: Chinner’s Swamp: received a letter about stormwater management

    1.

The back of the grounds needs improvement

    2.

The county is asking for a signed easement

    3.

The letter states their rights and what they have the authority to do

    4.

What are the benefits to us?

    5.

They have a right to exceed the drainage area for work, expanding if needed

      1.

We can’t interfere with their work

    6.

Permanent easement: are they going to drain and dredge the swamp area?

      1.

We can make requests, but they can stop us from doing work in the area

    7.

The final page is an exhibit that shows the grounds in red

      1.

I asked Mr. Smith to meet with Council publicly to explain the project

        1.

Possibly modify the easement and release it once the work is done

    8.

Cultural Heritage Partners: pro bono attorney work

      1.

Southern Environmental Law Center (SELC)

      2.

Open Space Institute (OSI)

  4.

Committee Reports

    1.

Buildings & Grounds: CM Glenn

      1.

Nothing new this month

    2.

Arts & Crafts

      1.

AC Cheryl: Is Lisa L heading it? I think she requested it

      2.

CM Rebecca said she was happy to help

      3.

CoC Susan: they need to submit 3 pieces of artwork

        1.

I will check to see who is certified

        2.

We can certify people on Family Day with other certified artisans

        3.

Lisa L: I went through the process and I’m certified

        4.

Willing to learn communication jobs

        5.

AC Cheryl: I think it may be a challenge, but it depends on the teacher’s ability

        6.

CM Rebecca: or do a hybrid: someone teaching in class and recording it for access later

        7.

Sara M: I want to join

        8.

CM Rebecca and Michelle will receive grant writing certifications

        9.

Supports underserved areas

        10.

Rolling grant, doing with USC

        11.

Sustainability, resilience

        12.

Works on water quality issues, pollution, rain pollinator gardens

        13.

Tier 1: $150k

        14.

Tier 2: $250k

        15.

Tier 3: $350k

        16.

3 meetings in the Fall of 2025

        17.

Workshop in 2026

        18.

Presentation and plan: February 2026

        19.

Installation x 2 days: Spring 2026

        20.

Michelle: I’ll check past meeting summaries

        21.

Secretary’s note 1/15: 8/2024, Council voted doing twice per year unless it was an election year

        22.

Family Day 2/15

        23.

Tony is doing hot dogs and sausage unless you want something different

        24.

CM Marion: 2C Alan and I suggest just hot dogs & burgers

        25.

CoC Susan: the cart doesn’t do this

        26.

CM Marion: the grill is out back, and needs 1 propane tank

        27.

Marion-yes, Emily-abstain, Glenn-yes, 2C Alan (Chris)-yes, Rebecca-yes, Susan-yes

        28.

2C Alan: I’ll go back through my emails

        29.

It doesn’t determine votes; just the steps of processing the apps

        30.

AC Cheryl: at the next files meeting; let Council approve or decline in March

        31.

We need 3-4 people

        32.

Dr. Dillian: it would be a useful day for students

        33.

AC Cheryl: absolutely

      4.

CoC Susan: we need to revamp our manual and set up classes

        1.

CM Rebecca: Zoom classes would allow more people to access it

        2.

AC Cheryl: I think it may be a challenge, but it depends on the teacher’s ability

        3.

CM Rebecca: or do a hybrid: someone teaching in class and recording it for access later

        4.

Sara M: I want to join

        5.

CM Rebecca and Michelle will receive grant writing certifications

        6.

Supports underserved areas

        7.

Rolling grant, doing with USC

        8.

Sustainability, resilience

        9.

Works on water quality issues, pollution, rain pollinator gardens

        10.

Tier 1: $150k

        11.

Tier 2: $250k

        12.

Tier 3: $350k

        13.

3 meetings in the Fall of 2025

        14.

Workshop in 2026

        15.

Presentation and plan: February 2026

        16.

Installation x 2 days: Spring 2026

        17.

Michelle: I’ll check past meeting summaries

        18.

Secretary’s note 1/15: 8/2024, Council voted doing twice per year unless it was an election year

        19.

Family Day 2/15

        20.

Tony is doing hot dogs and sausage unless you want something different

        21.

CM Marion: 2C Alan and I suggest just hot dogs & burgers

        22.

CoC Susan: the cart doesn’t do this

        23.

CM Marion: the grill is out back, and needs 1 propane tank

        24.

Marion-yes, Emily-abstain, Glenn-yes, 2C Alan (Chris)-yes, Rebecca-yes, Susan-yes

        25.

2C Alan: I’ll go back through my emails

        26.

It doesn’t determine votes; just the steps of processing the apps

        27.

AC Cheryl: at the next files meeting; let Council approve or decline in March

        28.

We need 3-4 people

        29.

Dr. Dillian: it would be a useful day for students

        30.

AC Cheryl: absolutely

    3.

Grants: AC Cheryl, Dr. Dillian, Michelle

      1.

Catalyst Grant

        1.

Capacity building

        2.

CM Rebecca and Michelle will receive grant writing certifications

        3.

Supports underserved areas

        4.

Rolling grant, doing with USC

        5.

Sustainability, resilience

        6.

Works on water quality issues, pollution, rain pollinator gardens

        7.

Tier 1: $150k

        8.

Tier 2: $250k

        9.

Tier 3: $350k

        10.

3 meetings in the Fall of 2025

        11.

Workshop in 2026

        12.

Presentation and plan: February 2026

        13.

Installation x 2 days: Spring 2026

        14.

Michelle: I’ll check past meeting summaries

        15.

Secretary’s note 1/15: 8/2024, Council voted doing twice per year unless it was an election year

        16.

Family Day 2/15

        17.

Tony is doing hot dogs and sausage unless you want something different

        18.

CM Marion: 2C Alan and I suggest just hot dogs & burgers

        19.

CoC Susan: the cart doesn’t do this

        20.

CM Marion: the grill is out back, and needs 1 propane tank

        21.

Marion-yes, Emily-abstain, Glenn-yes, 2C Alan (Chris)-yes, Rebecca-yes, Susan-yes

        22.

2C Alan: I’ll go back through my emails

        23.

It doesn’t determine votes; just the steps of processing the apps

        24.

AC Cheryl: at the next files meeting; let Council approve or decline in March

        25.

We need 3-4 people

        26.

Dr. Dillian: it would be a useful day for students

        27.

AC Cheryl: absolutely

        28.

Second year: bring state tribal leaders together

        29.

Dr. Dillian has to attend a workshop

      2.

ACLS Digital Justice Seed Grants

        1.

We should hear back in a couple of months

        2.

We will develop a story map

      3.

EPA Thriving Community Change Grant

        1.

Technical assistance through the Research Triangle Institute (RTI)

        2.

Supports underserved areas

        3.

Rolling grant, doing with USC

        4.

Sustainability, resilience

        5.

Works on water quality issues, pollution, rain pollinator gardens

        6.

Tier 1: $150k

        7.

Tier 2: $250k

        8.

Tier 3: $350k

        9.

3 meetings in the Fall of 2025

        10.

Workshop in 2026

        11.

Presentation and plan: February 2026

        12.

Installation x 2 days: Spring 2026

        13.

Michelle: I’ll check past meeting summaries

        14.

Secretary’s note 1/15: 8/2024, Council voted doing twice per year unless it was an election year

        15.

Family Day 2/15

        16.

Tony is doing hot dogs and sausage unless you want something different

        17.

CM Marion: 2C Alan and I suggest just hot dogs & burgers

        18.

CoC Susan: the cart doesn’t do this

        19.

CM Marion: the grill is out back, and needs 1 propane tank

        20.

Marion-yes, Emily-abstain, Glenn-yes, 2C Alan (Chris)-yes, Rebecca-yes, Susan-yes

        21.

2C Alan: I’ll go back through my emails

        22.

It doesn’t determine votes; just the steps of processing the apps

        23.

AC Cheryl: at the next files meeting; let Council approve or decline in March

        24.

We need 3-4 people

        25.

Dr. Dillian: it would be a useful day for students

        26.

AC Cheryl: absolutely

        27.

It has several tiers and we are between tiers; looking at small land acquisition

        28.

Tier 1: $150k

        29.

Tier 2: $250k

        30.

Tier 3: $350k

        31.

3 meetings in the Fall of 2025

        32.

Workshop in 2026

        33.

Presentation and plan: February 2026

        34.

Installation x 2 days: Spring 2026

        35.

Michelle: I’ll check past meeting summaries

        36.

Secretary’s note 1/15: 8/2024, Council voted doing twice per year unless it was an election year

        37.

Family Day 2/15

        38.

Tony is doing hot dogs and sausage unless you want something different

        39.

CM Marion: 2C Alan and I suggest just hot dogs & burgers

        40.

CoC Susan: the cart doesn’t do this

        41.

CM Marion: the grill is out back, and needs 1 propane tank

        42.

Marion-yes, Emily-abstain, Glenn-yes, 2C Alan (Chris)-yes, Rebecca-yes, Susan-yes

        43.

2C Alan: I’ll go back through my emails

        44.

It doesn’t determine votes; just the steps of processing the apps

        45.

AC Cheryl: at the next files meeting; let Council approve or decline in March

        46.

We need 3-4 people

        47.

Dr. Dillian: it would be a useful day for students

        48.

AC Cheryl: absolutely

      4.

SCNPS-Grand Strand Chapter Spring Grant Program-Youth Days Program

        1.

Due February 10

        2.

Reward up to $15k

        3.

Could pay for the signage from the Invasive Species removal

      5.

 NFWF-USDA People's Community Garden Initiative

        1.

CCU started the application; it only lets one person have access to the application

        2.

I think the maximum amount is $70k / 2-year term

        3.

Helps with garden design: three sisters, rain pollinator x2, medicinal

        4.

No money for maintenance, but these are designed as low-maintenance gardens

        5.

AC Cheryl: I had a conversation with Holley

        6.

3 meetings in the Fall of 2025

        7.

Workshop in 2026

        8.

Presentation and plan: February 2026

        9.

Installation x 2 days: Spring 2026

        10.

Michelle: I’ll check past meeting summaries

        11.

Secretary’s note 1/15: 8/2024, Council voted doing twice per year unless it was an election year

        12.

Family Day 2/15

        13.

Tony is doing hot dogs and sausage unless you want something different

        14.

CM Marion: 2C Alan and I suggest just hot dogs & burgers

        15.

CoC Susan: the cart doesn’t do this

        16.

CM Marion: the grill is out back, and needs 1 propane tank

        17.

Marion-yes, Emily-abstain, Glenn-yes, 2C Alan (Chris)-yes, Rebecca-yes, Susan-yes

        18.

2C Alan: I’ll go back through my emails

        19.

It doesn’t determine votes; just the steps of processing the apps

        20.

AC Cheryl: at the next files meeting; let Council approve or decline in March

        21.

We need 3-4 people

        22.

Dr. Dillian: it would be a useful day for students

        23.

AC Cheryl: absolutely

        24.

This grant dovetails with the EPA grant above

      6.

 SCAC due in March

        1.

Up to $6k for Pauwau or School Day events

      7.

Waccamaw Community Foundation (Opens in May)

        1.

Bathhouse

        2.

Capacity and operational expenses

      8.

SC CMA (TBD): portal is to be developed soon

        1.

2C Alan: $20k to give away to tribes

    4.

Newsletter and Communications

      1.

CoC Susan: we set up a schedule

        1.

It should be 3-4 times per year

        2.

Michelle: I’ll check past meeting summaries

        3.

Secretary’s note 1/15: 8/2024, Council voted doing twice per year unless it was an election year

        4.

Family Day 2/15

        5.

Tony is doing hot dogs and sausage unless you want something different

        6.

CM Marion: 2C Alan and I suggest just hot dogs & burgers

        7.

CoC Susan: the cart doesn’t do this

        8.

CM Marion: the grill is out back, and needs 1 propane tank

        9.

Marion-yes, Emily-abstain, Glenn-yes, 2C Alan (Chris)-yes, Rebecca-yes, Susan-yes

        10.

2C Alan: I’ll go back through my emails

        11.

It doesn’t determine votes; just the steps of processing the apps

        12.

AC Cheryl: at the next files meeting; let Council approve or decline in March

        13.

We need 3-4 people

        14.

Dr. Dillian: it would be a useful day for students

        15.

AC Cheryl: absolutely

      2.

Is Lindsey still doing it?

        1.

Secretary’s note 1/15: Lindsey is not doing it according to FB message

      3.

AC Cheryl: communications: flyers, photography, marketing materials

        1.

Cover Family Day, Youth Weekend, equinox, and solstice ceremonies

        2.

Family Day 2/15

        3.

Tony is doing hot dogs and sausage unless you want something different

        4.

CM Marion: 2C Alan and I suggest just hot dogs & burgers

        5.

CoC Susan: the cart doesn’t do this

        6.

CM Marion: the grill is out back, and needs 1 propane tank

        7.

Marion-yes, Emily-abstain, Glenn-yes, 2C Alan (Chris)-yes, Rebecca-yes, Susan-yes

        8.

2C Alan: I’ll go back through my emails

        9.

It doesn’t determine votes; just the steps of processing the apps

        10.

AC Cheryl: at the next files meeting; let Council approve or decline in March

        11.

We need 3-4 people

        12.

Dr. Dillian: it would be a useful day for students

        13.

AC Cheryl: absolutely

      4.

CoC Susan: Courtney wants to use tables and chairs like last year

        1.

CM Marion motioned to let Courtney use 2-10x20 tents, tables, and chairs; CM Glenn seconded

        2.

Marion-yes, Emily-abstain, Glenn-yes, 2C Alan (Chris)-yes, Rebecca-yes, Susan-yes

        3.

2C Alan: I’ll go back through my emails

        4.

It doesn’t determine votes; just the steps of processing the apps

        5.

AC Cheryl: at the next files meeting; let Council approve or decline in March

        6.

We need 3-4 people

        7.

Dr. Dillian: it would be a useful day for students

        8.

AC Cheryl: absolutely

        9.

Headcount: 2C Alan: plan for 40

    5.

Pauwau: Michelle

      1.

Looking for new stories of local cultural history & language

      2.

Looking for pictures of traditional suks

      3.

We need advocates to help bring more children to the grounds

      4.

We need to confirm a date and location for the Outbrief

        1.

CM Glenn: Damon’s has group pricing

      5.

CoC Susan: David Creel is retiring after this year

    6.

Drum: CM Glenn

      1.

Nothing new this month

    7.

Archiving Project: CM Rebecca

      1.

Jennifer R started archiving classes

      2.

We will go to the Catawba Archived in February

      3.

Markers for cemetery & school

      4.

Feedback from Dr. Dillian about signs

      5.

Please send materials to be archived

        1.

CoC Susan: I sent some to USC-Lancaster

    8.

Files

      1.

CoC Susan: got one in the mail for PJ C (Randi’s daughter)

        1.

It went to the PO Box

        2.

2C Alan: it doesn’t ring a bell; check for my seal

        3.

AC Cheryl: there’s nothing about a vote in my email

        4.

2C Alan: I’ll go back through my emails

        5.

It doesn’t determine votes; just the steps of processing the apps

        6.

AC Cheryl: at the next files meeting; let Council approve or decline in March

        7.

We need 3-4 people

        8.

Dr. Dillian: it would be a useful day for students

        9.

AC Cheryl: absolutely

      2.

Michelle sent policy letters to the executive branch and Council

        1.

Policy letter: Honorary App

        2.

Policy letter: Honorary to Full Membership

        3.

AC Cheryl: the policies were discussed over several meetings

        4.

It doesn’t determine votes; just the steps of processing the apps

        5.

AC Cheryl: at the next files meeting; let Council approve or decline in March

        6.

We need 3-4 people

        7.

Dr. Dillian: it would be a useful day for students

        8.

AC Cheryl: absolutely

        9.

CoC Susan: let’s table this and discuss online; I’m not sure we can force policies on the executive branch

        10.

AC Cheryl: at the next files meeting; let Council approve or decline in March

        11.

We need 3-4 people

        12.

Dr. Dillian: it would be a useful day for students

        13.

AC Cheryl: absolutely

      3.

2C Alan: 3 apps here, waiting on 1, and I’ll bring them in February

    9.

Longhouse Project: AC Cheryl

      1.

David has pneumonia and hopes he can bring more trees in March

        1.

Strappings can be done for mounted pieces

        2.

Clemson is coming to do the construction on the longhouse on 3/1

        3.

We need 3-4 people

        4.

Dr. Dillian: it would be a useful day for students

        5.

AC Cheryl: absolutely

  5.

Reminders

    1.

Family Day: 2/15

    2.

Veterans Stand Down: 3/8

      1.

2C Alan will touch base with the VA

        1.

They will help with claims, flyers, long-term help

      2.

Get the word out

    3.

Spring Equinox: 3/22

      1.

SC NPS will be there 8:30-11:30 & won’t impact the equinox

        1.

They will be installing signage

      2.

AC Cheryl: CM Glenn, are you okay with removing invasive species?

        1.

CM Glenn: if it has to be done, it has to be done

        2.

AC Cheryl: the milkweed around the pond should not be whacked

  6.

CM Chris: I got a call from Kat Littleturtle asking about doing an event this month

    1.

Stories, round circle

    2.

It doesn’t matter how many people come

    3.

They like to do an event every month

      1.

AC Cheryl: maybe during Family Day?

        1.

CM Marion: Family Day would be the best time

  7.

CM Marion: thank you to all who came out for the fire

    1.

Thank you to those who make our cultural appearance blossom

    2.

We’ve seen an increase in attendees

  8.

CM Glenn: shout-out to everyone who helped with PW setup & teardown

  9.

CoC Susan: thank you to everyone; we had an awesome PW

    1.

I got to watch grand entry

  10.

Sara M: I’m sorry I’ve been in and out; employees are dealing with fires in CA

    1.

Applied for vacation during 2025 PW

  11.

AC Cheryl: Tim R: WIldfire Coordinator for Horry County Fire Rescue and a certified prescribed fire manager

    1.

Put him in touch with Dr. Rich

  12.

AC Cheryl: Donnelley Foundation

    1.

Last year: too much went to the lead applicant

      1.

Jason C met with me in December; meeting on 1/17 to go forward

        1.

The GDDF grant would help with mapping ancestral lands

  13.

AC Cheryl: Historic Preservation Commission no longer pays for the cemetery markers

Marion motioned to close the meeting; Chris seconded.

Marion-yes, Emily-yes Glenn-yes, Chris-yes, Rebecca-yes, Susan-yes

The meeting adjourned at 8:38 p.m.

Respectfully submitted by Michelle Hatcher on 1/15/2025 at 5:42 pm.

Tags:

- [meeting](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/meeting)
- [minutes](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/minutes)
- [#Waccamaw](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/waccamaw-1)
- [#Native](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/native-2)

