---
title: "June 2025 Open Meeting Summary"
date: "2025-06-18T16:09:33Z"
lastmod: "2025-06-24T00:00:00Z"
url: "https://www.waccamaw.org/single-post/june-2025-open-meeting-summary"
categories:
  - "Equinox/ Solstice Ceremonies"
  - "Open Meeting Minutes 2025"
  - "Open Meetings"
  - "Tribal Meetings"
author: "Michelle Hatcher"
source: "wix"
source_guid: "6852e43baf95f7930b668ba7"
image: "./featured.png"
---

# June 2025 Open Meeting Summary

-

Michelle Hatcher
- Jun 18
- 9 min read

Updated: Jun 23

Tribal Open Meeting Summary 6/6/2025  held at the tribal office and via Zoom

1.

CMs Rebecca, Emily, Chris, Marion, and CoC Susan were present. Elders Ronni H, Larry J, Phil W, and Scott B were present. 2C Alan and AC Cail were present.

2.

Members Clayton G, Aaron F, Christine W, Randi C, Lisa L, Austin S, Dr. Carolyn D, Sara M, Nancy J, and Tim Harwell were present. Guests Amber F and Alex B were present.

3.

Financial Report (as of 6/4/2025 at 12:42 pm)

  1.

General Fund: $43,037.30

    1.

Purchases for B&G from Amazon need to be transferred back here: $553.34

      1.

I need receipts for purchases

  2.

Building Fund: $51,120.89

  3.

Cemetery Fund: $447.00

  4.

Grant Fund: $34,921.38

  5.

Old Business

    1.

Online Votes

      1.

6/2: Approve May Meeting Summary with a correction

        1.

Change to 5(b)(ii)(1): Phil is making earrings- not classes

        2.

Rebecca-yes, Emily-yes, Chris-yes, Marion-yes, CoC Susan-yes

        3.

We have seasonal fires

        4.

Amber F: That should work

        5.

Marion: 6/21 from sunrise to sunset

        6.

AC Cheryl: We should be able to do it after lunch on 6/21

        7.

Elder Phil: Want to wrap feathers on 6/21?

        8.

CoC Susan: We can do that

        9.

Rebecca: I would like some feathers, and I’ll pay for them

        10.

Elder Phil: I will give them to you

        11.

Marion: Where are we going to put it?

        12.

2C Alan: Then everyone will want to put things in here, and we don’t have the space

        13.

Rebecca: Foster a relationship with other organizations to have her art featured

        14.

Elder Phil: Convert the other building

        15.

CoC Susan: perhaps the Horry County Museum

  6.

New Business

    1.

Amber F from SCIAC & Indigenous Women’s Alliance & SC Center of Excellence in Addiction

      1.

Narcan delivery & training is available for all; help save a life

        1.

CoC Susan: Appreciate that; we can set up a training day

        2.

Marion: We meet the first Friday of the month, with a workday on Saturday

        3.

We have seasonal fires

        4.

Amber F: That should work

        5.

Marion: 6/21 from sunrise to sunset

        6.

AC Cheryl: We should be able to do it after lunch on 6/21

        7.

Elder Phil: Want to wrap feathers on 6/21?

        8.

CoC Susan: We can do that

        9.

Rebecca: I would like some feathers, and I’ll pay for them

        10.

Elder Phil: I will give them to you

        11.

Marion: Where are we going to put it?

        12.

2C Alan: Then everyone will want to put things in here, and we don’t have the space

        13.

Rebecca: Foster a relationship with other organizations to have her art featured

        14.

Elder Phil: Convert the other building

        15.

CoC Susan: perhaps the Horry County Museum

      2.

[https://addictioncenterofexcellence.sc.gov/](https://addictioncenterofexcellence.sc.gov/)

    2.

Receipts

      1.

Fuel: $16.04 Check 1086 from B&G Fund

        1.

The receipt was shared with Council so those on Zoom could see it

        2.

Rebecca-yes, Emily-yes, Chris-yes, Marion-yes, CoC Susan-yes

    3.

Committee Reports

      1.

Buildings & Grounds: Marion

        1.

Marion: I’d like to work on a bush back in the area where we held the social

      2.

Arts & Crafts: CoC Susan

        1.

CoC Susan: We got a bunch of leather from Carol H & turkey feathers

        2.

Elder Phil: Want to wrap feathers on 6/21?

        3.

CoC Susan: We can do that

        4.

Rebecca: I would like some feathers, and I’ll pay for them

        5.

Elder Phil: I will give them to you

        6.

Marion: Where are we going to put it?

        7.

2C Alan: Then everyone will want to put things in here, and we don’t have the space

        8.

Rebecca: Foster a relationship with other organizations to have her art featured

        9.

Elder Phil: Convert the other building

        10.

CoC Susan: perhaps the Horry County Museum

        11.

Dr. Sara Rich sent an email inquiring about hanging her artwork in the tribal office

        12.

Marion: Where are we going to put it?

        13.

2C Alan: Then everyone will want to put things in here, and we don’t have the space

        14.

Rebecca: Foster a relationship with other organizations to have her art featured

        15.

Elder Phil: Convert the other building

        16.

CoC Susan: perhaps the Horry County Museum

      3.

Grants: AC Cheryl

        1.

Knight Foundation: We have not heard back from them on the match for the bathhouse

        2.

Justice Outside: paperwork filled out for this year

        3.

NFWF: gardens grant: not heard back yet

        4.

SC TCTAC has been shut down because of the current DEI bill in the state house

        5.

I’ve written a letter of support as they re-establish as a Community Resource Hub

        6.

Michelle: CMA money has been received, and the steering committee needs to meet

        7.

Marion: Do we need to vote to start surveying?

        8.

CoC Susan: I didn’t know anything about it

        9.

CoC Susan: Do you want the surveyor to start?

        10.

Marion: Ronnie talked to the guy and put us in touch

        11.

AC Cheryl: It was less than the other quotes we received

        12.

Marion: It was $3750, but it needs approval

      4.

Dr. Sara Rich: inquire about hanging her artwork in the tribal office

      5.

Dr. Dillian: a faculty member (Crawford) wants to apply for a small grant for equipment for 3D scanning

        1.

Part is in the Little River Neck/ Waites Island

        2.

The grant deadline is in January, and I wanted to make you aware to ask questions and consider it.

        3.

She wants to 3D scan 10 items that can be manipulated on the computer, 3D printed, and uploaded to [https://www.morphosource.org/](https://www.morphosource.org/)

        4.

She is asking permission to write this grant and upload items to the internet

        5.

Questions to ask would be who writes the text, maintains control, and owns the data, but only with Council permission

        6.

Marion: I think it would be a nice idea with 3D items, people could see some of our heritage

        7.

I told her to come to the September meeting and present to Tribal Council

        8.

Rebecca added: [https://rla.unc.edu/3d/](https://rla.unc.edu/3d/)

        9.

It also allows them to be maintained so that if a disaster happens, they are damaged, etc, then the artifacts live on.

        10.

It allows tribes to keep ownership of their items

        11.

Shells, broken pottery tools

        12.

No burials at this site; we think people came a couple of times per year for food

        13.

Elder Phil: I think it’s bigger than that: we need to be able to look at that

        14.

Rebecca: I think it’s a wonderful idea with parameters

      6.

Newsletter: CoC Susan

        1.

Dr. Rich received a template and what we want in the newsletter

        2.

Zoey should be able to do it

      7.

Pauwau: Michelle

        1.

CoC Susan: the hot dog tray was given to Tony for Family Day, Pauwau, etc…

        2.

His contracts didn’t discuss how or what he gives to volunteers

        3.

The meal tickets had a meal on one half and a drink on the other

        4.

Marion: Why not print them on separate coupons?

        5.

Michelle: twice as much paper & ink used

        6.

Volunteers come to the office to sign in and get tickets

        7.

Marion: and drink and chips

        8.

Rebecca-yes, Emily-yes, Chris-yes, Marion-yes, CoC Susan-yes

        9.

Chris: 2 hot dogs or 1 hot dog & sausage, make it so people have options

        10.

Marion: and drink and chips

        11.

Rebecca-yes, Emily-yes, Chris-yes, Marion-yes, CoC Susan-yes

      8.

Drum

        1.

Marion: Nothing new

        2.

Chris: Kaya wants to have a monthly talking circle; he could probably help us on the drum

        3.

I’ll talk to him and see if he can help

        4.

2C Alan: Only people participating were in their 70s; we need younger people

        5.

Marion: We could put a drum by the fire and learn to drum and  the words

        6.

Elder Phil: Did you learn the song?

        7.

Marion: I’d be singing, going down the road

      9.

Archiving Project: Rebecca (from Zoom chat because of internet issues)

        1.

We are working to continue collecting materials.

        2.

Please, please, please consider writing down your family, and your stories and submitting them so that we can save them!

        3.

 Our histories, stories, memories are SUPER important!!!!

      10.

Woccon Language: Rebecca (from Zoom chat because of internet issues)

        1.

We had a meeting on Wednesday where we spoke with Dr. Corey Roberts, our linguist, and we are starting to do some actual work (although it is still preliminary)

        2.

We also have a way forward both with the linguist and with a program that Austin Serio has written/made that will help us as well.

        3.

We do have words that can be utilized, in written form, and we hope to be able to start having words to utilize that can be spoke as well. There are a few, but I want to double-check before we just run off with it.

        4.

Austin S: I created a new AI with vocabulary and grammar rules

        5.

If you ask for the word for “house,” it can’t tell you unless it knows

        6.

Rebecca: motion to allow Austin to apply for server credits to use our 501(c)(3); Marion seconded

        7.

Rebecca: It gives validity/ credibility to his work

        8.

CoC Susan: So it costs us nothing?

        9.

Rebecca: he’s paying for it now and shouldn’t have to

        10.

Rebecca-yes, Emily-yes, Chris-yes, Marion-yes, CoC Susan-yes

      11.

Summer Solstice 6/21

        1.

2C Alan: cooking or pizza?

        2.

CoC Susan: or chicken

        3.

Elder Larry: I’d be glad to cook chicken bog or chili or one of each

      12.

AC Cheryl: Accounting meeting on 6/4 with Coc Susan, Emily, and Michelle with Montgomery & Company

        1.

It was $3345 upfront and then $745/ month

        2.

CoC Susan: spoke with Randi C

        3.

Money in the bank now is mostly earmarked for other projects

        4.

Marion: How much does she want to do it?

        5.

Randi: Nothing

        6.

Randi: I already do 990s & 1099s; I’m the Dean of a school

        7.

CoC Susan: just pays for her membership fees

        8.

CoC Susan: We need to get her QuickBooks

        9.

AC Cheryl: I think it was the Plus subscription

        10.

Austin: Did you look at TechSoup? They may have a  cheaper version

        11.

[https://www.techsoup.org/](https://www.techsoup.org/)

        12.

Rebecca-yes, Emily-yes, Chris-yes, Marion-yes, CoC Susan-yes

        13.

Marion motioned that we use Randi as a bookkeeper with monthly, quarterly, and annual reports; Emily seconded

        14.

Rebecca-yes, Emily-yes, Chris-yes, Marion-yes, CoC Susan-yes

      13.

CoC Susan

        1.

Chamber of Commerce has Leadership Projects

        2.

They want a group of 30 people to work on our projects

        3.

Due by 6/30

        4.

Marion: I think we should be done with it

        5.

Elder Phil: Don’t be vague if you’re putting it on the table

        6.

Rebecca: If it’s gone on this long, I think we have to let it happen

        7.

Chief Hatcher: I doubt very seriously I said anything like that

        8.

AC Cheryl: I vaguely recall something about the lawnmower

        9.

Chief Hatcher: I agree with Marion

        10.

Marion: Let’s get past it; it won’t happen again

        11.

Chief Hatcher: I take it personally when people say that I said something I didn’t say

        12.

2C Alan: Council needs to make a policy

        13.

AC Cheryl: It was a nonverbal contract; it’s 7+ years later, and just being brought up

        14.

Marion: Do we need to have a way to say “no extension without Council vote?”

        15.

Someone took something more seriously than they should

        16.

Be done with it and go from there

        17.

If Chief Hatcher said anything, he’d say it was Council’s decision

        18.

If I take tribal members or people helping the tribe to dinner, I charge my meal and Susan’s meal to my credit card

        19.

I don’t like how people were making accusations

        20.

I can see reimbursing her for time, like volunteering

        21.

AC Cheryl: That is the policy; this didn’t get to a vote or mentioned in a meeting

        22.

Marion motioned to allow 5-year credit (2017-7/31/2022), allowing for $100 paid through 5/31/2025 and still owing $100; Rebecca seconded

        23.

The person needs to pay $200 or work both days of the pauwau

        24.

Rebecca-yes, Emily-yes, Chris-absent, Marion-yes, CoC Susan-yes

        25.

CoC Susan: No ID card until caught up

        26.

We have a resolution about large donations of money and equipment, but the people only did the research, not donating the item

        27.

Marion: I think we should be done with it

        28.

Elder Phil: Don’t be vague if you’re putting it on the table

        29.

Rebecca: If it’s gone on this long, I think we have to let it happen

        30.

Chief Hatcher: I doubt very seriously I said anything like that

        31.

AC Cheryl: I vaguely recall something about the lawnmower

        32.

Chief Hatcher: I agree with Marion

        33.

Marion: Let’s get past it; it won’t happen again

        34.

Chief Hatcher: I take it personally when people say that I said something I didn’t say

        35.

2C Alan: Council needs to make a policy

        36.

AC Cheryl: It was a nonverbal contract; it’s 7+ years later, and just being brought up

        37.

Marion: Do we need to have a way to say “no extension without Council vote?”

        38.

Someone took something more seriously than they should

        39.

Be done with it and go from there

        40.

If Chief Hatcher said anything, he’d say it was Council’s decision

        41.

If I take tribal members or people helping the tribe to dinner, I charge my meal and Susan’s meal to my credit card

        42.

I don’t like how people were making accusations

        43.

I can see reimbursing her for time, like volunteering

        44.

AC Cheryl: That is the policy; this didn’t get to a vote or mentioned in a meeting

        45.

Marion motioned to allow 5-year credit (2017-7/31/2022), allowing for $100 paid through 5/31/2025 and still owing $100; Rebecca seconded

        46.

The person needs to pay $200 or work both days of the pauwau

        47.

Rebecca-yes, Emily-yes, Chris-absent, Marion-yes, CoC Susan-yes

        48.

CoC Susan: No ID card until caught up

      14.

AC Cheryl

        1.

I’d like approval to sign on to the letter of support for the SC TCTAC program

        2.

Marion motioned to allow AC Cheryl to sign on to the letter of support for the SC TCTAC program; Rebecca seconded

        3.

Rebecca-yes, Emily-yes, Chris-absent, Marion-yes, CoC Susan-yes

      15.

Chief Hatcher

        1.

Tribal Cemetery Management

        2.

Graveyard- 2002, Elwood trimmed it, but it belonged to the trustees

        3.

I would like to give it back to the trustees, but they have to abide by our rules

        4.

They don’t know who’s supposed to go where; you get different answers from other trustees

        5.

Marion: I was mowing it for over a year and received a letter from the trustees saying not to do it; that it was their job

        6.

Else, not going to give it to them

        7.

I’ve been looking for a month

        8.

I received a quote for $900/year for $2M coverage

        9.

Assistance is available for victims of crimes

        10.

Grants for battered spouses

        11.

They’ve breached their duties as trustees

        12.

TN Land Insurance

        13.

I’ve been looking for a month

        14.

I received a quote for $900/year for $2M coverage

        15.

Assistance is available for victims of crimes

        16.

Grants for battered spouses

        17.

They’ve breached their duties as trustees

        18.

Attended a meeting with the AG office

        19.

Assistance is available for victims of crimes

        20.

Grants for battered spouses

        21.

They’ve breached their duties as trustees

      16.

Elder Larry: I want the front row to be Elders-only like before

      17.

Chief Hatcher: Elder Larry, any rumors about the cemetery?

        1.

Elder Larry: The tribe should take control of the cemetery

        2.

AC Cheryl: Money was supposed to go into a trustee account, not a personal banking account

        3.

They’ve breached their duties as trustees

      18.

Sara M: Glad to be back on meetings

      19.

Christine W: Thanks for inviting me

      20.

Alex B: Thanks for inviting me

Marion motioned to close the meeting; Rebecca seconded.

Rebecca-yes, Emily-yes, Chris-absent, Marion-yes, CoC Susan-yes

The meeting adjourned at 8:55 pm.

Respectfully submitted by Michelle Hatcher on 6/9/2025 at 2:50 pm.

Tags:

- [meeting](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/meeting)
- [#Native](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/native-2)
- [Waccamaw](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/waccamaw-2)

