---
title: ""
date: "2024-09-27T00:00:00Z"
lastmod: "2024-09-27T00:00:00Z"
url: "https://www.waccamaw.org/single-post/april-2024-open-meeting-summary"
categories:
author: ""
source: "wix"
source_guid: ""
---

# April 2024 Open Meeting Summary

-

Michelle Hatcher
- Apr 25, 2024
- 8 min read

Tribal Open Meeting Summary 4/5/2024  held at the tribal office and via Zoom

1.

CM’s Susan, Emily, Glenn, Marion, Robert, and CoC Dalton were present. 2C Alan had CM Chris’ proxy. Elders Becky S and Larry J were present. Acting Chief Cheryl and 2C Alan were present.

2.

Members Dr. Dillian, Betty L, Nancy J, Clayton G, Dona M, Stephen W, Aaron F, Rebecca F, Randy W, Steven T, Carol L, Lisa L, Kevin D were present. Guest Monty B was present.

3.

Financial Report (as of 4/4/2024 at 1:46 pm)

4.

General Fund: $40,381.85

5.

Building Fund: $1866.61

6.

Cemetery Fund: $407.00

7.

Old Business

8.

Online Votes

9.

3/20: Waccamaw Longhouse Memorial Sign

10.

Emily-yes, Susan-yes, Glenn-yes, Marion-yes, Dalton-yes

11.

3/21 Approve March Meeting Summary

12.

Emily-yes, Susan-yes, Glenn-yes, Marion-yes, Robert-yes, 2C Alan (Chris)- yes, Dalton-yes

13.

3/22 Catawba Request for Willows

14.

Emily-yes, Susan-abstain, Glenn-no, Marion-yes, 2C Alan (Chris), Dalton-yes

15.

3/26 Allow Blakelyn Leger from CCU to use our FB profile picture or header for the interpretive trail

16.

Emily-yes, Susan-yes, Glenn-yes, Marion-yes, Robert-yes, 2C Alan (Chris)- yes, Dalton-yes

17.

Survey Quotes

18.

Glenn: $5000 quote from Palmetto Surveyors (Conway)

19.

$2000 quote from J&W Surveyors (Aynor)

20.

Marion: make sure they have plats

21.

AC Cheryl: who are the companies?

22.

Glenn: one in Conway, one in Aynor

23.

CoC Dalton: email us the details

24.

Glenn: the one in Conway needs to know 6 weeks ahead; once we give him the money

25.

The $5000 quote is at least 2 weeks out

26.

The one in Conway gave me a third person to call; no response yet

27.

Glenn: I suggest waiting on a third quote

28.

Policy letters

29.

Susan sent them by email to Tribal Council

30.

Council should review them and be prepared to make changes where needed

31.

Dr. Dillian: we’re moving ahead to the exhibit

32.

We’re bringing materials on Monday; students will help

33.

4/16 @ 3 pm

34.

Canadian Film Day is 4/17 @ 6 pm: Trick or Treaty

35.

Free tickets

36.

Held at CCU

37.

AC Cheryl: the signs look good

38.

Dr. Dillian: the students appreciated people talking to them

39.

Glenn C: John T would like to put the core/ noncore requirement for Chief on the ballot

40.

Glenn C motioned to put it on the ballot

41.

CoC Dalton: you want a motion to have a referendum?

42.

Glenn C: yes

43.

CoC Dalton: do we have a second?

44.

No second; motion fails

45.

New Business

46.

Monty Hawk Branham (Catawba Artisan)

47.

It’s long overdue to form this bond; we’re stronger with a united voice

48.

I’ve run a sweat lodge for over 25 years

49.

I want to bring back several ceremonies to reconnect

50.

I want to extend and assist with the endeavors of WIP

51.

Keith Little Bear Brown runs a behavioral health program

52.

We’re trying to plant willows

53.

We use them to build the sweat lodge

54.

Chief Harris reached out to see if WIP would let him have some

55.

I was asked to come down and help with your current projects

56.

Especially with ceremonies

57.

Our ancestors sacrificed languages, traditions, and customs to avoid persecution and prosecution

58.

We’d like to provide healing for our ancestors and ourselves and generations to come

59.

Keith mentioned fire ceremonies

60.

I haven’t been to one of yours and would be honored to come

61.

I’m not coming to change people; we all have our own path

62.

I would like an understudy for procedures; it is a commitment

63.

CoC Dalton: thanks for coming

64.

Reminder: PW meeting on Thursday

65.

You can meet with Marion or Robert about the fire

66.

Monty B: I started this journey more than 30 years ago

67.

I’m a master potter, play flute, drum, lead ceremonies

68.

A part of community programs and government, presentations, and representation

69.

AC Cheryl: You coordinated 4/6 @ 11

70.

Maybe fire too if Marion will do it

71.

Monty B: I’ll talk to anyone about programs

72.

Any ceremonies brought back with active people provide a deeper connection to the ancestors

73.

I’ll share my stories

74.

Indigenous are special because of their connection to Mother Earth

75.

We’ve gotten away from those things and need to rebuild the connection

76.

We need the state and federal governments to recognize all of us

77.

Receipts

78.

Fuel

79.

Glenn C: The card isn’t working

80.

Look at the dates and signatures

81.

Susan: some are prepaid

82.

Marion: when the receipt comes out, it says prepaid

83.

AC Cheryl: can they set it up to send the bill to us?

84.

Michelle: they only like to deal with Donnie

85.

Susan: we shouldn’t be getting bills 3 months late

86.

CoC Dalton: hold the receipts until next month and have Donnie explain it

87.

Set the two questionable ones to the side and ask him about it

88.

Total: $50.40

89.

CoC Dalton motioned to pay; Robert seconded

90.

Emily-yes, Susan-yes, Glenn-yes, Marion-yes, Robert-yes, 2C Alan (Chris)- yes, Dalton-yes

91.

Check 1074 B&G Fund

92.

Committee Reports

93.

Building & Grounds: Glenn

94.

Nothing new

95.

2C Alan: where are we on the ditches?

96.

Susan: we need an update on it

97.

Glenn: I can only do so much with my knee

98.

Susan: I’m just worried about it being there during PW time

99.

Should we hire someone?

100.

Glenn: that depends on you guys

101.

AC Cheryl: labor & supplies?

102.

Glenn: both

103.

AC Cheryl: there were 3 leaks to repair

104.

Susan: on fiber optics: is it terminated or unterminated?

105.

Glenn: terminated, just need a box

106.

AC Cheryl: what is the distance for piping?

107.

Glenn: 300, I think

108.

Marion: we had 500 ft donated

109.

Susan: if we had a plan, more people could come out

110.

Dr. Dillian: we could get our ROTC students who need service hours to help

111.

Glenn: I think it’s 300 ft pipe, 500 ft cable

112.

Susan: give us a plan of attack

113.

Glenn: make it a work day and have people out here

114.

AC Cheryl: Is it drawn up?

115.

Glenn: no

116.

AC Cheryl: Anthony Edwards does design work for repairs and upgrades

117.

Glenn: there wasn’t a picture before; it’s why we have trenches now

118.

Marion: didn’t you say to put a marker in it?

119.

Glenn: yes, until we saw the price

120.

Arts & Crafts

121.

Nothing new

122.

Grants: AC Cheryl

123.

NEH grant was denied

124.

Dr. Dillian: I want to get their review notes

125.

Donnelly Grant: submitted 3/29

126.

We have a meeting on our plans with the exhibit, mapping

127.

It looks like it will be granted

128.

This one is done with American Rivers (AR) and they get 19% off the top

129.

They manage it

130.

We can apply on our own next year

131.

AC Cheryl: this grant gives Michelle & others interested the ability to certify as a grant writer

132.

AC Cheryl: is the 19% just on our half or the whole grant?

133.

Dr. Dillian: or the whole amount or certain categories?

134.

Marion motioned to allow AR to do 19% or less on this grant; 2C Alan seconded

135.

Emily-yes, Susan-yes, Glenn-yes, Marion-yes, Robert-yes, 2C Alan (Chris)- yes, Dalton-yes

136.

Catalyst Grant: due 4/26

137.

EPA Community Change Grant: it has 2 tracks

138.

Track 1: climate resilience

139.

Use a community center to provide training on the environment

140.

Education on plants

141.

Technical assistance

142.

Design plans could help with pipelines

143.

Up to $2M

144.

Track 2: community engagement & webinars

145.

Provide training for members

146.

Up to $250k

147.

We can apply for both

148.

AC Cheryl: do we apply for track 1, track 2, or both?

149.

<Provided slides to Tribal Council>

150.

CoC Dalton: any questions?

151.

It makes sense to do both

152.

2C Alan: could we build a hurricane shelter?

153.

AC Cheryl: it could depend on zones

154.

We fall under EJ, but not FEMA zones

155.

Aynor High School is probably in FEMA zone

156.

2C Alan: would we manage it?

157.

AC Cheryl: it would be ours

158.

Susan: can we design it?

159.

AC Cheryl: that’s part of the design plan

160.

Susan: can we do a turtle, like Turtle Island?

161.

AC Cheryl: we would have to talk with them

162.

Someone gave us a picture/ plan of it; check the filing cabinets

163.

AC Cheryl motioned to apply for track 1 and track 2; Robert seconded

164.

Elder Larry: go for both

165.

Emily-yes, Susan-yes, Glenn-yes, Marion-yes, Robert-yes, 2C Alan (Chris)- yes, Dalton-yes

166.

SCAC grant due 4/16

167.

Pauwau

168.

Looking for pictures of our older members

169.

Elder Becky provided 2 pictures

170.

Start selling ads/ memorial pages for the program book

171.

Working on demonstrators to finalize the flier earlier

172.

Files

173.

Nathan K (honorary)

174.

2C Alan: His was done a few months ago

175.

Michelle: please send me his working email address

176.

Newsletter

177.

Need articles

178.

Susan: Cheryl, send me about a page-long letter

179.

Don’t forget: letters of intent go in there too

180.

CoC Dalton: not rerunning due to health

181.

AC Cheryl: for June?

182.

Susan: by May 15

183.

AC Cheryl: is it ok if David H camps the week of the 19th?

184.

Susan: yes; CoC, send him an email telling him he has permission all the time while he is working out here

185.

Susan: got a call from a lady at Brookgreen Gardens

186.

The suk we built isn’t there anymore due to kids

187.

She’d like us to construct another one

188.

Are we up to it?

189.

AC Cheryl: probably not; it only benefits them

190.

It was Waccamaw land

191.

When are they looking to do it?

192.

Susan: she wants us to drum and have a jewelry class too

193.

They would host any event we want there

194.

If it’s something we aren’t being charged for, I think we should do it including education on the suk for children

195.

Marion: are they going to buy the materials?

196.

Susan: I haven’t gone that far

197.

And we still have materials at the house

198.

Put fencing and plexiglass around the suk with an informational sign

199.

We will need willow trees to do it

200.

Dr. Dillian: I know the president there (Paige); I could set up times for us to meet with her

201.

Susan: let me get back with the first lady

202.

Susan: last time, some people couldn’t visit the cemetery despite being family

203.

We couldn’t get into the archives there

204.

Reminder: Fire Ceremony dates for 2024: 6/22, 9/21, 12/14

205.

2C Alan: Reminder: Edisto PW: 4/26-27

206.

Acting Chief

207.

Black River Project- 70 miles acquired & being developed

208.

It’s mapped out; a couple of sites were large

209.

If there’s enough SC tribes that want to use it

210.

It’s excluded from park access

211.

It would need utilities, parking, facilities, etc…

212.

It seems unuseful for 2 intertribal events/ year

213.

After meetings, we could have an engagement with the public

214.

Construct sweat lodges there

215.

It’s far enough out that Monty can help with lodge training

216.

I’m looking at a better use for intertribal/ intercultural events

217.

It would be like a park

218.

I have a meeting with the Council of Chiefs soon

219.

What are your thoughts- just intertribal or intercultural and building out exhibits?

220.

Susan: still need facilities

221.

AC Cheryl: yes, they would be there

222.

Susan: Even if it’s done 1-2 times/year, people could still camp year-round

223.

AC Cheryl: that would be set up

224.

Susan: just Native?

225.

AC Cheryl: yes

226.

Susan: each tribe could set up

227.

AC Cheryl yes

228.

AC Cheryl: would we have a third PW?

229.

Susan: like the Unity PW

230.

AC Cheryl: yes, who else would do a PW there?

231.

Some think “Why would we do it when we have our own land?”

232.

Susan: could have vision quests for kids

233.

AC Cheryl: sweat lodge, fire ceremonies

234.

Marion: other tribes need to start training firekeepers

235.

As Monty said, we need more dedicated people

236.

AC Cheryl: would it be useful for us and useful for intertribal/ intercultural events?

237.

Marion: PW takes a lot of work

238.

Glenn: last Unity PW was 2009

239.

2C Alan: with Council of Chiefs, you’d have all of the tribes together

240.

AC Cheryl: they are doing the heavy lifting; we consult and provide knowledge

241.

Susan: I think it would be a good idea; I don’t want to turn it down

242.

Let’s hear what other tribes have to say

Susan motioned to close the meeting; Emily seconded.

Emily-yes, Susan-yes, Glenn-yes, Marion-yes, Robert-yes, 2C Alan (Chris)- yes, Dalton-yes

The meeting adjourned at 9:06 p.m.

Respectfully submitted by Michelle Hatcher on 4/25/2024 at 1:09 am.

Tags:

- [meeting](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/meeting)
- [Native](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/native)
- [#Waccamaw](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/waccamaw-1)

