---
title: ""
date: "2024-09-27T00:00:00Z"
lastmod: "2024-09-27T00:00:00Z"
url: "https://www.waccamaw.org/single-post/june-2024-open-meeting-summary"
categories:
author: ""
source: "wix"
source_guid: ""
---

# June 2024 Open Meeting Summary

-

Michelle Hatcher
- Jun 21, 2024
- 8 min read

Tribal Open Meeting Summary 6/7/2024  held at the tribal office and via Zoom

1.

CM’s Susan, Chris, Marion, and Glenn were present. 2C Alan served as a proxy for CM Emily. Elders Becky S, Ronnie H, Glenn T, Charles H, and Larry J were present. 2C Alan, Acting Chief Cheryl, and Chief Hatcher were present.

2.

Members Carolyn D, Steven T, Carol H, Aaron F, Rebecca F, David Baskin, John T, Tracey G, Starla C, Lisa L, Shannon O, Sara R, Scott B, Kristin M, Coby F, Kevin D, Charles A, and Jennifer R were present.

3.

Financial Report (as of 6/6/2024 at 3:31 pm)

4.

General Fund: $40,272.81

5.

Building Fund: $1816.21

6.

Cemetery Fund: $407.00

7.

Old Business

8.

Online Votes

9.

5/22: Approve May Open Meeting Summary

10.

Susan-yes, Chris-yes, Marion-yes, Glenn-yes, 2C Alan (Emily)-yes, Robert- absent, Dalton-absent

11.

Survey Quotes

12.

Susan: calling them on Monday

13.

Policy Letters

14.

Marion: I couldn’t open them

15.

Susan: I will try sending them individually

16.

TN Land Sale

17.

ACC Cheryl: no response from Greg Smith’s office

18.

The ex-wife of Jerry Brown may still be living there & may have rights

19.

They’ll have the TN office handle it

20.

It may be a good idea to hold onto it because of its conservation value

21.

We could use it as a trade for land here

22.

A party that might be interested is the Holliday family

23.

I think Jerry Brown would want us to benefit

24.

Marion: I agree with the conservation part

25.

Glenn: as far as the ex-wife, they weren’t there 3 years ago

26.

AC Cheryl: they may have legal rights or heirs though

27.

Chief Hatcher: there were land estates given to Jerry Brown and his wife

28.

At his death, they were divorced and the judge didn’t give her the land in the divorce

29.

We should call her (Donna)

30.

Marion: or contact her lawyer

31.

Susan: we should & explore this later

32.

SC Thrive

33.

Susan: I haven’t heard anything from them

34.

Brookgreen Gardens

35.

Susan: we have met in the last couple of weeks and they want to work with us

36.

I asked Robin about the documents

37.

She said there weren’t any, but there were artifacts, but we were welcome to come to view them

38.

Documents may be stored at CCU

39.

They’d like us to have a mini-pw there

40.

Native Americans- they won’t want to pay fees ($14.50+)

41.

I explained how a PW works to Robin and Teresa

42.

Chris: we could have a JR HM/HL there

43.

Susan: I’m not sure of the logistics

44.

I told her it would be next year and determined by the PWs in the area

45.

I told her I’d bring it to the Council to discuss

46.

2C Alan: do it early in the year to not conflict with ours

47.

Susan: I think the area by the education center, another area is by the suk, or by the river depending on the rain are good sites to do it

48.

Susan: they want to change out our displays

49.

AC Cheryl: there are people all over with artifacts

50.

Chris Judge said we should have time with the community to share a display

51.

I’m not sure Brookgreen is the ideal spot for that

52.

Carolyn: Brookgreen has had that before & could host it

53.

SC has an advocational site form

54.

Fill it out and help with mapping

55.

Susan: as for our PW, vendors don’t need a vendor license, unsure about Brookgreen

56.

Robin would need to check in to it since it’s in a different county

57.

Susan: I told her I’d bring it to Council to see if they want to do it

58.

Chris: need to make a working budget

59.

Susan: and she has a list of potential grants

60.

Susan: she said to give her a list of people coming

61.

I think they should just show their tribal ID card

62.

They will buy all the materials for the suk

63.

AC Cheryl: do they want just us on the suk?

64.

Susan: I’ll ask her

65.

Marion: I think I need to work on the longhouse with David H

66.

AC Cheryl: I went to Occaneechi Village & have pictures & notes

67.

More than just Ocanneechi were there

68.

Maybe partner with Winyah or Santee and do an intertribal event

69.

Susan: Wassamasaw or Edisto

70.

AC Cheryl: I think they may be too far away

71.

Susan: it’s good for the PW

72.

AC Cheryl: I’m thinking the starting point to the Black River

73.

Hold an intertribal PW

74.

Susan: it doesn’t hurt to ask

75.

New Business

76.

Committee Reports

77.

Buildings & Grounds: Glenn & Marion

78.

Glenn: nothing to report

79.

Marion: we need to get the plumbing done; hire a contractor

80.

Let Chris find one to give us a quote and vote online

81.

Austin may give us a price

82.

We need to get the grounds ready for campers

83.

Marion: motion to hire a contractor after getting a quote; 2C Alan (Emily) seconded

84.

AC Cheryl: can we get a timeline on the work to be done?

85.

Chris: he can give you that

86.

Marion: motion amended: find someone to do the work, get the price, and let AC Cheryl or CoC Dalton put it up for a vote

87.

Susan-yes, Chris-yes, Marion-yes, Glenn-yes, 2C Alan (Emily)-yes, Robert- absent, Dalton-absent

88.

Grants: AC Cheryl & Michelle

89.

Donnelley Grant: pending

90.

Susan: they sent an honorarium payment

91.

We had to go back & fix the budget to add WRA

92.

It is subgranted by AR

93.

It is specific to the mapping project, research, community involvement

94.

We need to hold community events to gather information on old records & details

95.

It will help towards federal recognition

96.

Dollar A Day Fund: $1000

97.

It was filled out

98.

Rematriation Project

99.

EPA Community Change Grant: put together a master plan

100.

Expanded land area

101.

Expand the trail to the other side of the Pee Dee River

102.

Due on 11/21

103.

Outside Justice: up to $40,000

104.

Use for Fishing Day & youth projects

105.

2C Alan: don’t forget the Methodist Church: $500

106.

Use it for regalia and mentors

107.

SCAC: they said they never received it even though I have a copy of the completed app

108.

It would have been our third or fourth time getting it, which would be unlikely

109.

Dr. Dillian: we still have some money left for the longhouse

110.

Ask David H about the supplies needed

111.

Newsletter: Susan

112.

We need to get it out

113.

I think if a person takes on the responsibility to do it, they should get it sent out too

114.

Marion: I did it last time and would be happy to do it again

115.

Chief Hatcher: I thought you were using M&M/.

116.

Susan: I think the rumor was that not everyone was getting one

117.

Glenn: I thought it was expensive

118.

Susan: no it wasn’t

119.

Chief Hatcher: what did M&M charge?

120.

Marion: we’d have to look

121.

Susan: we need to get a handle on it

122.

If there’s a problem with it, just remove the statements (letters)

123.

PW: AC Cheryl & Michelle

124.

Looking for new stories of local cultural history

125.

Fundraisers

126.

Donuts: $0

127.

Popcorn: $109.93

128.

Looking for pictures of traditional suks and regalia

129.

Working on demonstrators to finalize the flier

130.

Chris: Glenn Morris, a flute player, will charge $200 for the weekend

131.

CCU Archiving Projects

132.

Welcome any new items

133.

Files

134.

Barbara Ingram (honorary)

135.

Helen Griffin (honorary)

136.

Fechers (need to verify genealogy before moving to full membership)

137.

Michelle: are we having a meeting tomorrow?

138.

Susan & AC Cheryl: no

139.

Longhouse Project

140.

Marion: David H sent a text: he won’t be here tomorrow

141.

I will debark tomorrow

142.

AC Cheryl: David got metal in his eye last time

143.

Reminder: Fire Ceremony on 6/22 at 6:10 am

144.

AC Cheryl: and on 9/21, if we get the grant, mapping and other things will happen

145.

2C Alan: Grey Court PAIA PW on 6/8

146.

AC Cheryl

147.

We received a plaque from the Historic Preservation Commission

148.

Susan Platt has been a strong advocate & has written a lot of grants

149.

Preservation might not be a building

150.

Their office is under the Planning & Zoning Department

151.

AC Cheryl: motion to enter the tribal grounds' ancestral lands into the Horry County Preservation Commission Registry

152.

Marion: what is the positive of being on the list?

153.

AC Cheryl: the county acknowledges the land belonged to this group of people

154.

In 1720, there was a war with the Waccamaw: history says that all Waccamaw were killed/ eradicated or went to Catawba

155.

27 years later, there was Waccamaw, a Waccamaw village, etc…

156.

Our land was conquested 100 years ago

157.

Marion: if we can register it, we should fill out the application

158.

AC Cheryl: the cemetery is on tribal land; the location would just show here

159.

Chris & Susan: it’d best to wait until the map is done

160.

Glenn: are there any legal implications?

161.

AC Cheryl: it would say the county acknowledges us, but just at this location

162.

AC Cheryl: we should pause until we have more information

163.

Susan: do the map until we have more facts

164.

Draft Treaty

165.

No edits or comments

166.

It will be voted on 6/14 by the Council of Chiefs

167.

On the signing day, the media will be there

168.

The copy given to the Council is not the current copy

169.

Marion: will the signing be in Columbia?

170.

AC Cheryl: probably

171.

Chief Hatcher: the Catawba longhouse would be better

172.

Chief Hatcher

173.

The land goes all the way to the Black River

174.

We can narrow it down for them if needed

175.

Gene Martin passed away a couple of days ago

176.

I give him credit for natives in this state

177.

His nephew would like to have a memorial service on the grounds on 6/15, 11 am-3 pm

178.

He’ll need to use tables & chairs; they set up and tear down

179.

I asked Dalton and he said okay with no charge

180.

The service is open to us

181.

His ashes: Marion would decide if he could add them to the fire circle

182.

On 6/18, there is a meeting with Congressman Russell Fry

183.

I have asked CCU to attend with AC Cheryl

184.

Ask him to resubmit the bill

185.

Dr. Dillian will be in England doing research for us

186.

AC Cheryl: CMA wants to as well

187.

Elder nominations

188.

Scott Beaver

189.

Susan-yes, Chris-yes, Marion-yes, Glenn-yes, 2C Alan (Emily)-yes, Robert- absent, Dalton-absent

190.

Oath of Office given by Chief Hatcher

191.

Randy Wood

192.

He has worked with us for years & wants to be a firekeeper

193.

Marion-abstain, Glenn-abstain, 2C Alan (Emily)-abstain, Robert- absent, Dalton-absent

194.

2C Alan: wonder if he has enough experience

195.

Glenn: we ought to have more knowledge of the tribe and its operations

196.

Marion: he needs more experience within the tribe; he’s done great work so far

197.

He comes to all meetings, fires, etc…

198.

Elders

199.

Charles A: land in TN

200.

Hardly none here; hold on to what you’ve got

201.

Chief Hatcher: it’s 47 acres, unsure who goes on it

202.

AC Cheryl: the cemetery fence needs to be done

203.

Susan: when will it be fixed?

204.

Glenn: I’ve been working on it with Richard T

205.

Chief Hatcher: what are we going to do with the cemetery trustees; they don’t report here

206.

Issues with trustees

207.

Linda A. wants a site; I contacted the chair of the trustees and got no response

208.

You can’t tell which site is whose

209.

Glenn: let me talk to Glenn, Richard, and Wayne

210.

Larry J: they set guidelines

211.

They moved my and Nancy’s site 4 times

212.

AC Cheryl: it can come back on us

213.

Trustees have a fiduciary responsibility

214.

If it’s not being done, we need to change them

215.

The land belongs to the tribe, not the trustees

216.

Glenn: Hilda’s daughter is liable to sue us for rights

217.

Chief Hatcher: they did sue us

218.

SC Cheryl: the tribe can sue the trustees for poor management

219.

AC Cheryl: motion to move the $500 honorarium from the Donnelley grant  into the grant account; Marion seconded

220.

Susan-yes, Chris-yes, Marion-yes, Glenn-yes, 2C Alan (Emily)-yes, Robert- absent, Dalton-absent

2C Alan motioned to close the meeting; Glenn seconded.

Susan-yes, Chris-yes, Marion-yes, Glenn-yes, 2C Alan (Emily)-yes, Robert- absent, Dalton-absent

The meeting adjourned at 8:47 p.m.

Respectfully submitted by Michelle Hatcher on 6/21/2024 at 1:55 pm.

Tags:

- [meeting](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/meeting)
- [Native](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/native)
- [minutes](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/minutes)
- [#Waccamaw](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/waccamaw-1)

