---
title: ""
date: "2024-09-29T00:00:00Z"
lastmod: "2024-09-29T00:00:00Z"
url: "https://www.waccamaw.org/single-post/2017/04/04/march-2017-meeting-summary"
categories:
author: ""
source: "wix"
source_guid: ""
---

# March 2017 Meeting Summary

-

Doug Hatcher
- Apr 4, 2017
- 4 min read

Tribal Open Meeting Summary 3/3/2017 held at the Tribal Office in Aynor, SC

1.

CM’s John, Susan, Dalton, Robert, and CoC Rick present.

2.

February Minutes read

3.

Dalton motioned to accept; Robert seconded

4.

John-yes, Susan-yes, Robert-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-yes

5.

Financial Report

6.

General Fund: $9944.20

7.

Building Fund: $1659.90

8.

Cemetery Fund: $531.26

9.

New Business

10.

Resolution DH-12-02-2016-001: Certification of the results of the 2016 tribal election

11.

John-yes, Susan-yes, Robert-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-yes

12.

Chief Hatcher swore-in Tribal Council members

13.

Committee Reports

14.

Arts & Crafts: Susan

15.

4/22 @ 2pm: choker class for $40: RSVP

16.

USC-Lancaster: items removed

17.

3/16 USC-Lancaster Chief luncheon featuring PAIA items

18.

Grants: Michelle

19.

SCAC grant submitted online through Submittable App; will be April or May before we hear back

20.

Pauwau: Michelle

21.

Courtney to replace Debbie as a voting member on the committee; needs Council approval

22.

John-yes, Susan-yes, Robert-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-yes

23.

Hog Heaven fundraiser on 6/13 with Chris Judge as speaker

24.

Meetings are second Wednesday of the month at 6pm

25.

Buildings & Grounds: Rick

26.

Roof Expenses: $5277.92; under budget

27.

Thanks to all who helped

28.

Special Needs Fishing Day

29.

Roger Barber donated 200lbs of fish for pond for Special Needs Fishing Day

30.

2nd Chief Cheryl: help will be here for volunteers

31.

Elder Doug: can we have an Easter Egg Hunt the same day?

32.

Rick: sure

33.

3/31-4/2 Elder Doug will have a yard sale while items last & proceeds go toward the Special Needs Fishing Day

34.

Held across from Hwy 90 Diner

35.

Rick: Marshall’s Marine: Lake City: possible sponsor; they were given pictures to look at

36.

Bass Pro Shop committed, but haven’t received anything yet

37.

Susan: Ashley Paige: Kids Summer Programs

38.

Possible funding for lunches for kids; just need #’s

39.

Rick: would like to send out 75 apps; date moved back this year to be more accommodating

40.

Parking Lot & Shuttle: John

41.

Worth pursuing; just not sure it will be ready to do by first bike weekend

42.

As a trial run, let people park at no charge with donation

43.

Ray & John willing to stay on grounds as security

44.

Chief Hatcher: will we need more insurance for this?

45.

John: possibly more for days we have people here

46.

Chief: policy is a year-round policy

47.

2nd Chief Cheryl: Non-profits running a business outside their mission statement: create a LLC (run risk of unrelated business income tax & ricking nonprofit status)

48.

Rick: how would 1 year of not charging work?

49.

2nd Chief Cheryl: we would have to look into it

50.

Rick: is it feasible to get the LLC done before May 15?

51.

Chief Hatcher: should get it within 30 days

52.

Rick: is there a taxi service in Aynor?

53.

John: no

54.

Rick: work with the taxi company in Conway

55.

2nd Chief Cheryl: or Uber

56.

John: will check on the cost of advertising on sites

57.

2nd Chief Cheryl: should we pursue the LLC?

58.

Rick, Chief Hatcher: yes

59.

2nd Chief Cheryl into the cost of LLC with Mr. Beverly

60.

Alan: doesn’t the LLC have to get its own insurance because of use of the grounds?

61.

Susan: we’ll have to look into it

62.

John: we can increase it just for those weeks that we have people here

63.

Susan: you may get some who won’t come the second time because you didn’t charge the first time (other than donation)

64.

John: motion to allow people to park here for free during bike week & I will pursue advertising; Robert seconded

65.

Susan: thoughts for donations?

66.

Dalton: just say “donations accepted”

67.

John-yes, Susan-yes, Robert-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-yes

68.

Dalton: motion to make LLC an event planner; Robert seconded

69.

Susan: wouldn’t the LLC need its own bank account?

70.

2nd Chief Cheryl: yes; own bank account & books

71.

Rick: $300 budget to start LLC; Robert seconded

72.

John-yes, Susan-yes, Robert-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-yes

73.

Have to decide on LLC name; see what’s taken

74.

Dalton: propose that heads of committees be the board of the LLC; Robert seconded

75.

John-yes, Susan-yes, Robert-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-yes

76.

Event

77.

John: attended the rally in Columbia for minorities

78.

Next week: one in DC & Columbia

79.

2nd Chief Cheryl

80.

For Jackson Event 4/11

81.

New Pauwau Demographics Sheet: still doesn’t show adults

82.

Spoke with Brent Burgin: archivist at USC-L- Native American Studies

83.

Site is collecting history (oral & video), pictures (very old and new) with caption to date, church, school, etc.

84.

ICMN: Intergenerational trauma: Native Americans inherited pain

85.

Honorary Applications

86.

Greta Morgan (pending Picture)

87.

Update: picture received 3/5/2017

88.

Dan Morgan (pending picture)

89.

Update: picture received 3/5/2017

90.

Susan: free smoke detectors; pamphlet on tribal office table

91.

Fuel Receipt: $26.70 Check 570

92.

Chief Hatcher

93.

Introduced investors to Tribal Council

94.

Raising funds for federal recognition

95.

Greg Smith: best Native American attorney in country

96.

Alcade & Fay: best firm in the country

97.

CMA Recognition Board Recognized Pee Dee, Sumter Band

98.

3/10 March in Columbia for Natives @ 1pm for 2 miles or so, drum, 400+ people

99.

CMA recognized 5 bills on the floor

100.

Free Hunting & Fishing licenses

101.

Eliminating Group recognition: stops future group formation

102.

Bill for the Governor to appoint people as the Advisory Committee says

103.

Game animal parts

104.

CMA & Jobs in Education

105.

Good job Alan

106.

Goal is to increase education & income of Native American families

107.

Proud of Tribal Council; set pace in SC

John motioned to close the meeting; Robert seconded.

Meeting adjourned 8:30 pm.

Respectfully submitted by Michelle Hatcher on 4/4/17 at 1:44 pm.1

[#meeting](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/hashtags/meeting) [#minutes](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/hashtags/minutes)

