---
title: ""
date: "2024-10-12T00:00:00Z"
lastmod: "2024-10-12T00:00:00Z"
url: "https://www.waccamaw.org/single-post/2016/08/10/may-2015-open-meeting-summary-05012015"
categories:
author: ""
source: "wix"
source_guid: ""
---

# May 2015 Open Meeting Summary 05012015

-

Doug Hatcher
- Jul 30, 2016
- 3 min read

Tribal Open Meeting Summary 5/1/2015 held at the Tribal Office in Aynor, SC

1.

CM’s Susan, Homer, John, Rick, Robert, Dalton, and CoC Scott present.

2.

April minutes read.

3.

Susan: 3c(1)(a): you can trap out of season with permit

4.

Rick: 3c(2): cost: $30 +S&H for 10

5.

Dalton motioned to accept; Susan seconded

6.

Homer-yes, John-abstain, Susan-yes, Rick-yes, Robert-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-abstain

7.

Financial Report: Chief Hatcher will forward to Council

8.

Online Votes

9.

$80 for port-a-potty- moot since Gary’s Pumping donated them

10.

Use of PA System: John-yes, Susan-yes, Rick-yes, Robert-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

11.

Old Business

12.

Trademark of Tribal Logo: Susan

13.

Can trademark through Secretary of State’s office for $15/ class

14.

Not sure if it covers us nationally

15.

Review every 5 years

16.

Homer motioned to start with SoS office; Rick seconded

17.

Homer-yes, John-yes, Susan-yes, Rick-yes, Robert-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

18.

New Business

19.

Committee Reports

20.

Arts & Crafts: Susan

21.

Met 4/12

22.

Have a proposed budget for approval: $239

23.

Budget handout given to Council

24.

Homer motioned to approve budget; John seconded

25.

Homer-yes, John-yes, Susan-yes, Rick-yes, Robert-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

26.

Discussed USC-Lancaster display

27.

2nd Chief Phil said for artists to submit 2 pieces for display; Susan suggested 4 so they can be rotated throughout the year

28.

Council will get to see pictures of items to be put on display

29.

Classes should help sustain committee as far as money for product soon

30.

Grants: Michelle

31.

SCAC: declined our grant; only approved 2 this year

32.

Chief Hatcher: Lowe’s grant also denied

33.

Buildings & Grounds: John

34.

RV Project: items ordered; hope 5/16 or 5/23 for work day with 10 people

35.

Flashing put in to help with roof leak

36.

Cemetery fund: $370.00

37.

Cemetery maintenance

38.

Chief Hatcher: who takes of the one on Juno Rd

39.

Some thought Wayne did, but were unsure

40.

Pauwau: Michelle

41.

Policy Book progress: money management policy has been drafted

42.

Next up: gate, dance, miscellaneous items

43.

Ads: the ad form is ready to distribute and we could use everyone’s assistance

44.

Chief Hatcher requested a list of the dancers

45.

Michelle: dance registration notebook should still be in the office

46.

Next meeting 5/13 @ Ryan’s

47.

Sewer Pump Project: Mark

48.

Still need funding

49.

John: how much was it?

50.

Mark: approx. $9-10k total; $3400 for just the pump

51.

Drum: Rick

52.

We will practice after the fishing tournament

53.

Fishing tournament 5/2 @ 9:30am (7:30 for setup)

54.

All covered but food

55.

Certificates of Participation & Photo of Chief

56.

Horry Independent confirmed they will be there

57.

Constitution: Dalton

58.

Meeting this month hopefully

59.

John requested to have the meeting at the tribal office

60.

Receipts

61.

Mark: food for fishing tournament: $200 check 629

62.

Chief Hatcher

63.

SCIAC opening bingo

64.

They want us to hang a few Native American items in the hall for grand opening or monthly

65.

Mark suggested there be a form to fill out as well as a timeframe with details

66.

Family gathering at Pee Dee Tribe in Bennettsville @ 1pm on 5/1

67.

Received a call stating there would be a congressional hearing on 25CFR87.3

68.

Fort Jackson demonstration- everyone should attend once if they can

69.

In process of electing 2 new tribes to sit on CMA commission and would like Joey Watford to continue to take that position for us

70.

Susan seconded

71.

Homer-yes, John-yes, Susan-yes, Rick-yes, Robert-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

72.

SoS end-of-year and IRS reports done

73.

Susan

74.

Camping on Grounds: Council please remember to hit “reply all” when replying to emails so others can respond to your questions

75.

It would be from June-Nov

76.

She wants to park by the circle because of her dogs; says the barking bothers Donnie

77.

She understands the policy of 2 weeks on, 1 day off

78.

Rick: it’s still wet down there

79.

Mark: will she pick up after her dogs?

80.

Susan: her husband will

81.

She understands price & said she will give more

82.

Scott: she could go out the back gate

83.

Homer: she may have to because you’re working down there

84.

Homer motioned to allow her to use the grounds; Dalton seconded

85.

Homer-yes, John-yes, Susan-yes, Rick-yes, Robert-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

86.

Elder Doug

87.

Jeania needs Chris Hatcher’s picture to do his ID card

88.

Dalton: I sent her it to her that night

89.

Alan’s ID card will be in the mail tomorrow

90.

Conway Senior Citizens wants someone to do a presentation

91.

Mark

92.

Justin Ammons not up for review

93.

Michelle: he was voted in 7/11/2014; not time yet

94.

Chief Hatcher: if we know someone has letters of support, awards, etc, we can consider that, not just the person standing in front of Council; Dalton seconded

95.

John: think all adults should have to verbally request a review

96.

Somewhere in the process they should have to be here

97.

Rick: can it be at Council’s discretion?

98.

Chief Hatcher: yes

99.

Chief Hatcher: withdraw proposal and will write one & send it to Council for review

Susan motioned to close the meeting; Homer seconded.

Meeting adjourned 8:01 pm.

Respectfully submitted by Michelle Hatcher on 6/01/15 at 12:36 pm.

[#minutes](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/hashtags/minutes) [#meeting](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/hashtags/meeting)

