---
title: ""
date: "2024-09-29T00:00:00Z"
lastmod: "2024-09-29T00:00:00Z"
url: "https://www.waccamaw.org/single-post/january-2021-open-meeting-summary"
categories:
author: ""
source: "wix"
source_guid: ""
---

# January 2021 Open Meeting Summary

-

Michelle Hatcher
- Jan 30, 2021
- 3 min read

Updated: Apr 4, 2021

Tribal Open Meeting Summary 1/8/2021  held via Zoom

1.

CM’s Marion, Susan, Alan, Marie, Glenn (6:45pm), and CoC Dalton present. VC Cheryl, 2C Phil, 2C John, and Chief Hatcher present.

2.

Financial Report (according to CNB site, 1/6/2021)

  1.

General Fund: $17,066.57

  2.

Building Fund: $3797.81

3.

Online Votes

  1.

11/29 Keep or Return items for Christmas from Carla

    1.

Susan-return, Marie-return, Marion-return, Alan-return, Dalton-return

  2.

12/3 Accept October Meeting Summary

    1.

Alan-yes, Marie-yes, Marion-yes, Susan-yes, Dalton-yes

  3.

12/4 Vote on date of swearing-in ceremony to be at solstice

    1.

Alan-yes, Marie-yes, Marion-yes, Susan-yes, Dalton-yes

  4.

12/15 Fuel receipts $36.00

    1.

Alan-yes, Marie-yes, Marion-yes, Susan-yes, Dalton-yes

  5.

12/17 Allow David Perry to sleep at office

    1.

Alan-yes, Marie-yes, Marion-yes, Susan-yes, Dalton-yes

  6.

12/25 Allow Chief Hatcher the access to conduct the federal recognition process

    1.

Alan-yes, Marie-yes, Marion-yes, Susan-yes, Dalton-yes

4.

Old Business

  1.

Newsletter

    1.

Newsletter: please submit articles to Carol Ann or get in touch with her for topic ideas

5.

New Business

  1.

Receipts

    1.

Stamps: $55 paid by Glenn Cook (emailed receipt)

      1.

Alan-yes, Marie-yes, Marion-yes, Susan-yes, Glenn-yes, Dalton-yes

  2.

Dalton H: would like to push meetings to 7pm to accommodate CM’s

    1.

Alan motioned; Glenn seconded

      1.

Alan-yes, Marie-yes, Marion-yes, Susan-yes, Dalton-yes

  3.

Committee Reports

    1.

Buildings & Grounds: Glenn C

      1.

Too wet to work out there

      2.

Worked through the summer

    2.

Arts & Crafts: Susan H

      1.

Nothing right now

      2.

Not opposed to doing classes via Zoom

        1.

Did it in September with Horry County Arts Council

      3.

VC Cheryl: can do Zoom screen sharing

      4.

2C Phil: have connections with vendors in West Virginia

        1.

Can get pictures to see if we want to display items

        2.

Alan: state museum: Changing Native exhibit for February; can see artifacts

    3.

Pauwau

      1.

Susan: talked about schools at the last meeting, but SC’s numbers keep going up

      2.

Dalton: should we plan for a Pauwau with a cutoff date?

        1.

Susan: plan for now; send letters to vendors/ demonstrators explaining that we are in the planning phase

        2.

Glenn: add to contract that we can cancel at any time

    4.

Drum

      1.

Glenn: nothing yet; haven’t been together

      2.

Alan: no time with virus

    5.

Campground

      1.

Glenn: nothing new; driveway too wet

      2.

2C John: cost approximately $5875 for sewer project

        1.

Glenn: and the light pole costs $700-800

      3.

2C John: pursue the project, but may have to do electrical first

        1.

Glenn: Do we have to wait to get the check?

        2.

Chief Hatcher: do it either way; should receive check this month

        3.

Glenn: motion that we wait till the end of February to start sewer project

        4.

2C John: do we have to do electrical first?

        5.

Glenn: has to be done by the time they finish

        6.

Glenn: I rescind the motion

        7.

Glenn: motion to wait until February to start, but do the electrical now as weather permits; Alan seconded

        8.

Alan-yes, Marie-yes, Marion-yes, Susan-yes, Dalton-yes

    6.

Files: Dalton

      1.

Meeting 1/16 via Zoom with a couple possibly at the office

      2.

Getting with Glenn to get database into Microsoft for Nonprofit

        1.

Glenn: should be done

        2.

With Marie’s work, hope to get files cleaned up quickly

        3.

Chief Hatcher: can everyone change things?

        4.

Dalton: only the committee

        5.

2C Phil: should have a control point

        6.

Chief Hatcher: you won’t be able to keep control of the files if everyone can make changes

        7.

VC Cheryl: does it give you specific permissions and an audit trail?

        8.

Dalton: yes and possibly, respectively

        9.

2C John: have a backup person in case something happens to you

        10.

Dalton: yes

  4.

Family Day

    1.

Dalton: discussion on cooking and having one

      1.

Think there’s too much COVID

      2.

2C John: don’t think we should right now

      3.

2C Phil: no, for the same reason

      4.

VC Cheryl: agree with 2C John; hospitals are over occupancy

        1.

Think it’s too cold to have it outside

      5.

Susan: would like to, but it would be a bad time right now

        1.

Numbers keep going up everywhere

        2.

If there was any possibility, one person cook the main dish, everyone bring their own side dish

      6.

Alan: hold off and maybe do it during the summer

      7.

Susan: can do a Zoom gathering

        1.

VC Cheryl: did a Zoom party happy hour

        2.

Glenn: ok with a few people, but not in a building or a large gathering

      8.

Alan: motion to delay Family Day until it’s safe to have a meeting in the office; Glenn seconded

        1.

Alan-yes, Marie-yes, Marion-yes, Susan-yes, Dalton-yes

  5.

2nd Chiefs

    1.

VC Cheryl: did a podcast with American Rivers

      1.

Susan: money deposited

      2.

VC Cheryl: Idle No More gave $500

        1.

Environmental Justice Efforts- American Rivers DC

        2.

Feedback on environmental inequities

        3.

For us, the Waccamaw River

        4.

Train on using legal system and apply for funding

      3.

Education Taskforce meeting next week

        1.

Dr Pressley was at the last meeting

        2.

Putting together resources for teachers

        3.

Can help by increasing knowledge of history

  6.

Chief Hatcher

    1.

Papers need to be signed by the governing body for SoS & BIA

    2.

2C John and I are working on free GED & operation classes

    3.

VC Cheryl has been an excellent asset for education

    4.

State has 9 recognized tribes, but only 3 are mentioned in textbooks

      1.

Meeting with Spearman (?) to include everyone

    5.

Appreciate all of your hard work

    6.

VC Cheryl: trying to get other Chiefs involved with the taskforce

    7.

CARES ACT: $7500

    8.

SCIAC funded at $2500

    9.

Carla Goodson asking for honorary/ associate membership to get funding in law school

      1.

VC Cheryl: no on honorary

    10.

Kevin [D?] wants honorary membership

  7.

Susan: University of Florida Pharmacy Training Program

    1.

[www.needymeds.org](http://www.needymeds.org/)

    2.

At a pharmacy, ask for the cash price if copay is high

Starla motioned to close the meeting; Glenn seconded.

Meeting adjourned at 8:15 pm.

Respectfully submitted by Michelle Hatcher on 1/30/2021 at 1:10 am.

Tags:

- [meeting](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/meeting)
- [minutes](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/minutes)

