---
title: ""
date: "2024-09-28T00:00:00Z"
lastmod: "2024-09-28T00:00:00Z"
url: "https://www.waccamaw.org/single-post/december-2021-open-meeting-summary"
categories:
author: ""
source: "wix"
source_guid: ""
---

# December 2021 Open Meeting Summary

-

Michelle Hatcher
- Dec 31, 2021
- 4 min read

Tribal Open Meeting Summary 12/3/2021 held via Zoom

1.

CM’s Marie, Marion, Chris Susan, Glenn, and CoC Dalton present. 2C John, VC Cheryl (also proxy for Glenn), 2C Alan, and Elder Larry present.

2.

Financial Report  (as of 12/1/2021 at 11:13 pm)

  1.

General Fund: $15,840.12

  2.

Building Fund: $4305.81

  3.

Cemetery Fund: $1848.96

3.

Old Business

  1.

Resolution: SHH08-06-2021: Second Chance Membership Renewal

    1.

Amending date to 3/1/2022

      1.

Not everyone received it; no hard copies mailed

      2.

Requesting an exception to policy on the 3 reading rule

        1.

Chief Hatcher agreed to the exception to policy

      3.

Marie motioned; Marion seconded to accept with the change

        1.

Glenn-yes, Susan-yes, Marie-yes, Chris-yes, Marion-yes, Dalton-yes

4.

New Business

  1.

Federal Recognition: Noel Knight

    1.

Grandfather was John Dimery

    2.

Currently an Honorary member

    3.

Says our federal recognition bill is good, but it’s still in committee

    4.

He can send more information as it’s fleshed out

    5.

2C John: Would friends of the Waccamaw be businesses that support the tribe?

      1.

Noel: businesses all throughout the state

    6.

2C John: Are you spearheading this or should we be doing it?

      1.

Noel: already doing it; wanted to talk to Council

        1.

Maranda C: could probably work together; I do social media, art, grow sages

        2.

CoC Dalton: for social media, you don’t need Council permission

        3.

Maranda: want to push to places other than Facebook

        4.

CoC Dalton: if you want to do it for Waccamaw, you need permission

        5.

For art, to promote it as Waccamaw art, you have to be certified

        6.

Contact Susan for artist application and child membership application

        7.

Noel: also looking for full membership

        8.

CoC Dalton: Honorary membership can be a stepping stone, just need a nomination from the executive branch and for Council to open the roll book; Speak with Chief Hatcher, VC Cheryl, 2C John

    7.

CoC Dalton to Noel: create a how-to for people to write a letter to politicians

      1.

Noel: will do and will create a memorandum with updates

    8.

Chief Hatcher: received a phone call from Congress last week; said BIA accepted tribes at the 1900 date; I disagreed

      1.

Rep. Rice did an interview and he said it went back to 1900s

      2.

Still looking at Criteria E of CFR 83.7

  2.

Receipts

    1.

Fuel: $37.59 paid through B&G card

      1.

CoC Dalton: think it should come out of B&G, which would put it under Glenn’s management

        1.

Glenn agreed to do it

        2.

Glenn: only problem occurs when Donnie gives Chief the receipts not hand them in and they only want to deal with Donnie

        3.

Chief Hatcher: you’re delegated to pay it; makes sense

        4.

Dalton: any objection to moving it to B&G under Glenn’s management?

        5.

No one disagreed

    2.

2C Alan: receipts for Indigenous Day dinner: $132.58

    3.

VC Cheryl: receipt for Thank you dinner: $33.19

  3.

Committee Reports

    1.

Buildings & Grounds: Glenn

      1.

Chris H to email prices on pipes- roughly $1500

        1.

Covers 3 buildings and dump station

        2.

Can put in a grinder with 2” pipe and expand to the campground

    2.

Arts & Crafts: Susan

      1.

Need to get together and do something

        1.

Chief Hatcher: perhaps every solstice hold an event; could also bring more people to solstice

        2.

2C John: Perhaps the tribe should foot the bill for art materials?

        3.

CoC Dalton: maybe do an online thing

        4.

Give people a list of materials; share a how-to through Zoom and social media

        5.

Maranda: do a masterclass with art by Waccamaw

        6.

I would like to learn more

        7.

CoC Dalton: get in touch with Susan with setting up classes and becoming a tribal artist

        8.

Chris H: make the art and sell at the pauwau

        9.

Maranda: and at my yoga studios, barn (music venue)

    3.

Pauwau: Michelle

      1.

First meeting is 1/13/2022 at 6:30pm via Zoom

    4.

Drum: Glenn

      1.

Played at the virtual pauwau

      2.

2C Alan: one event canceled due to COVID

    5.

Campground

      1.

Considering a grinder station

    6.

Files: Glenn

      1.

Waiting on photos for some people

      2.

Next meeting 12/18/2021 at 7pm via Zoom and in-person

      3.

2C John: thought of giving Honorary members a certificate, no ID card until full member

        1.

Susan: ok with that

        2.

CoC Dalton: depends on the type of Honorary member; children need it for education

  4.

Family Day

    1.

2C Alan: Are we going to have Family Day in February?

      1.

CoC Dalton: we haven’t voted to change it

        1.

Our meetings are by Zoom, but wanted to discuss possibility of in-person meetings

        2.

Enough people in tribal government who are vaccinated to do it in-person

      2.

2C Alan: need to decide on food- who cooks or potluck

        1.

Susan: could do soups, chicken, sides

        2.

Chief Hatcher: Honor Blanket leader wants to do a ceremony that day

        3.

On 2/19 in-person

        4.

Susan motioned; Marie seconded

        5.

Glenn-yes, Susan-yes, Marie-yes, Chris-yes, Marion-yes, Dalton-yes

        6.

Who is going to spearhead the Family Day arrangements?

        7.

2C John: I’ll do it

  5.

Glenn: B&G volunteer hours read and emailed to Michelle for credit

  6.

VC Cheryl

    1.

A lot of food leftover from the Stand Down

      1.

Was thinking of giving it to places like Community Kitchen in MB, Backpack Buddies

      2.

Need to authorize someone to handle it

      3.

Susan: we can make baskets for our elders

        1.

2C John: email people and let those who want it come get it on Solstice Day

        2.

There are 68 boxes

      4.

CoC Dalton: So baskets--- Solstice Day--- Community Kitchen?

        1.

Susan motioned to give boxes of food out by making baskets, letting people pick up some on Solstice Day, and then giving remaining amount to Community Kitchen; Marie seconded

        2.

Glenn-yes, Susan-yes, Marie-yes, Chris-yes, Marion-yes, Dalton-yes

    2.

On the 23rd (Nov?), I went to property that was deemed as Native American burial site with Dr. Dillian and others

      1.

Would be the location of a village or boat

      2.

Dr. Dillian said it was significant

      3.

Question on how you determine if there’s remains since you can’t do ground penetrating radar

        1.

Proceed with getting oral stories

        2.

Document it and get it on the record to keep someone from excavating

      4.

Eddy Lake Cemetery had native roots

  7.

CoC Dalton

    1.

Do we want to resume in-person Council meetings?

      1.

Susan: do both

      2.

CoC Dalton: do people want to do just in-person, or just Zoom, or both?

        1.

Glenn: would wait until March and see how numbers are

  8.

Chief Hatcher

    1.

Was requested at Chief Justice of the Supreme Court

      1.

Lumbee color guard posted a flag; Susan was impressed with their uniform

        1.

Ours is currently plain; would like Council to fund new uniforms

    2.

New tribe in the state: Black River Indians

      1.

Met with them and their lawyer

        1.

They plan to ask for state recognition and wanted my recommendation letter

        2.

I refused at this time

    3.

2C John and I want to do an online language class

      1.

It has to be funded

      2.

Put it online with 10 or so words/ week

    4.

Changed the pauwau grant to video documentary

      1.

Need to pay people and write the final report

  9.

VC Cheryl: Georgia C sent an email and said goodbye

    1.

On hospice care at home

    2.

She felt welcomed and accepted here

    3.

On the next solstice, do something to honor her

Susan motioned to close the meeting; Marie seconded.

Meeting adjourned at 8:44 pm.

Respectfully submitted by Michelle Hatcher on 12/31/2021 at 11:59 am

Tags:

- [meeting](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/meeting)
- [Native](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/native)
- [minutes](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/minutes)

