---
title: ""
date: "2024-09-28T00:00:00Z"
lastmod: "2024-09-28T00:00:00Z"
url: "https://www.waccamaw.org/single-post/2016/08/10/july-2014-open-meeting-summary-07112014"
categories:
author: ""
source: "wix"
source_guid: ""
---

# July 2014 Open Meeting Summary 07112014

-

Doug Hatcher
- Jul 20, 2016
- 5 min read

Tribal Open Meeting Summary 7/11/2014 held at the Tribal Office in Aynor, SC

1.

CoC Scott, CM’s Dalton, Susan, John, Robert, and Rick present.

2.

June Minutes read

3.

Dalton: 5(b)(i)(2)(a) should not include Rick as a voting member yet

4.

Dalton motioned to accept with change; Rick seconded

5.

Rick-yes, Robert-yes, John-yes, Susan-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

6.

Financial Report: Alan

7.

General Fund

8.

Deposits: $1347.77 Debits: $1549.55  Balance: $13,032.17

9.

Chief Hatcher: a deposit & withdrawal for $1000 for TN trip included; $98 left, receipts included

10.

Building Fund

11.

Deposits: $25.00 Debits: $0.00 Balance: $1075.00

12.

Online Votes

13.

6/14 Purchase tractor parts

14.

Rick-yes, Robert-yes, John-yes, Susan-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

15.

6/14 Purchase & install 2 tractor tires

16.

Rick-yes, Robert-yes, John-yes, Susan-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

17.

6/19 Make trip to TN (not used)

18.

Rick-yes, Robert-yes, John-yes, Susan-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

19.

6/30 $500 to pay taxes on TN land (turned out to be $232, look over receipts)

20.

Rick-yes, Robert-yes, John-yes, Susan-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

21.

Old Business

22.

Membership Files

23.

Dorinda Ammons

24.

Rick-yes, Robert-yes, John-yes, Susan-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

25.

Justin Ammons

26.

Rick-yes, Robert-yes, John-yes, Susan-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

27.

Jessica Hudnall

28.

Rick-yes, Robert-yes, John-yes, Susan-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

29.

Harley Smith

30.

Rick-yes, Robert-yes, John-yes, Susan-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

31.

Jonathan Hudnall

32.

Rick-yes, Robert-yes, John-yes, Susan-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

33.

Inactive Membership List

34.

Dalton motioned to remove ID’s [#448](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/hashtags/448)-452 on Monthly Report Query dated 7/11/2014

35.

2nd Chief Iris

36.

Question about spousal/ associate members being required to use tribal court, but can’t constitutionally

37.

Dalton & Chief Hatcher: need to revise membership agreement

38.

John: If associate members came to tribal court, wouldn’t that make Chief part of judicial system?

39.

Chief Hatcher: If someone doesn’t conduct themselves properly, we should ask them to leave; not part of judicial system

40.

2nd Chief Iris: Council needs to create a resolution

41.

2nd Chief Cheryl: why wouldn’t they go before 2nd Chief Judicial?

42.

Dalton: that’s how Chief wants to handle it

43.

Chief Hatcher: that will work

44.

2nd Chief Cheryl: Or Council as jury, 2nd Chief Judicial to hear case

45.

Chief Hatcher: that will work

46.

Children: we have to do something for them; get them involved

47.

Can’t B&G do something with trailer for the kids?

48.

Chief Hatcher: what good does it do if they are playing games over there and a meeting is going on here from a cultural aspect?

49.

2nd Chief Iris: groom them; games, camping trips

50.

Darlene W: have to have a mix of fun & cultural

51.

Jeania K: would love to bring kids here, not sure younger ones would sit still long enough though

52.

2nd Chief Iris: two people (Jessica & Hayes) willing to take over youth group

53.

Rick: let them watch a video about culture during the meeting

54.

Chief Hatcher: put electric, air, bathroom there now

55.

John: still don’t think we need toys

56.

John to work on it  with Rick & present costs to Council

57.

John: need someone with carpentry skills

58.

Committee Reports

59.

Arts & Crafts: Susan

60.

Dalton motioned; Robert seconded for Chief Hatcher to be on committee

61.

Rick-yes, Robert-yes, John-yes, Susan-yes, Dalton-abstain, Scott-yes

62.

Applications

63.

Darlene White

64.

Robert-yes, Chief Hatcher-yes, Susan-yes, 2nd Chief Iris-yes

65.

2nd Chief Phil White

66.

Robert-yes, Chief Hatcher-yes, Susan-yes, 2nd Chief Iris-yes

67.

Neal Richard

68.

Robert-yes, Chief Hatcher-yes, Susan-yes, 2nd Chief Iris-yes

69.

Congratulations to new artists

70.

Chief Hatcher resigned from committee

71.

2nd Chief Iris asked to schedule a meeting

72.

Chief Hatcher suggested nominating voting members/ Robert seconded

73.

2nd Chief Phil, Neal nominated as voting members

74.

Rick-yes, Robert-yes, John-yes, Susan-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

75.

Now 6 members as voting members

76.

Grants: Michelle

77.

Section 184 Grant for Home Repairs

78.

Housing Trust Fund 10/1

79.

Through state; have to meet criteria

80.

No interim draws, only final payment

81.

Rebuilding Together for cosmetic home repairs

82.

Buildings & Grounds: John

83.

Thank you to Donnie, Richard T, Wayne T, Rick

84.

Cemetery Fund: $410

85.

Solstice: discussed making it more vendor-friendly as far as spacing

86.

Get away from spending money on all electrical outlets

87.

Move them behind tents to avoid tripping

88.

5-6 RV spots for food court at front of grounds

89.

200 amp box; 30 amp per site & water

90.

Spread them out, more than 22ft requested

91.

No RV’s in that area

92.

Susan: you’re still going to have a problem with congestion (and described spacing between dance circle and vendor circle)

93.

Chief Hatcher: too late to do this year; land has to heal

94.

Susan: Can food vendors see Pauwau from spot you want to put them?

95.

Dalton: separate the two issues out

96.

2nd Chief Cheryl: power, space

97.

John: aside, if want to do a living village, dance circle is in wrong place

98.

John motioned to allot money for 6 RV spots; Dalton seconded

99.

Rick-yes, Robert-yes, John-yes, Susan-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

100.

Spring Trimmer Receipt: $390.48

101.

Neal & Wayne went through nature walk; want to reinstitute it

102.

Perhaps scouts could help

103.

Working on leveling & cool seal

104.

Pond fence: take down or revamp

105.

2nd Chief Cheryl: teenage boys would like to go fishing

106.

Scott: before Pauwau?

107.

John: after

108.

Rick motioned to take down the fence, cut trees, revamp area after Pauwau; Susan seconded

109.

Rick-yes, Robert-yes, John-yes, Susan-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

110.

Pauwau: Susan

111.

Had meeting on 7/9/2014

112.

Hotel price is $53 this year; possibly next as well

113.

Hog Heaven fund raiser: $750

114.

Money to be used for 2 billboards

115.

Billboards: information sent to Lamar

116.

Rivertalk: Mon. @ 11:30, also a couple before Pauwau

117.

Debbie B brought up curbing Waccamaw Bucks to raffle & dues

118.

John: some people do so much work for Waccamaw Bucks, but get so little of them, after awhile they aren’t useful

119.

Scott: would rather them pay dues than win a $500 raffle

120.

Rick: after someone has volunteered for so much, why does he have to pay a gate fee?

121.

Chief Hatcher: we have to make money at Pauwau to pay people (MC’s, lead dancers, drum, etc…)

122.

Darlene W: make them non-transferable/ sole-use only

123.

Alan F: keep list throughout year of who works

124.

Michelle: all volunteer forms are supposed to be turned in to me

125.

Susan: Waccamaw Bucks help people who can’t come up with money to pay dues

126.

Dalton motioned to restrict Waccamaw Bucks to raffle/ dues; all volunteers to get a personal gate pass

127.

Chief Hatcher: not that simple- not everyone knows who volunteers

128.

Ahead of timeline

129.

Deadline for ads & Program Book articles is 8/15

130.

Darlene W asked about an “In Memory” page

131.

Susan: cost is $25; anyone can do them

132.

Mark A: would like to see different recipes

133.

Michelle: send them to us

134.

Fuel Receipt: $81.14 Check 593

135.

Dalton motioned; Rick seconded

136.

Rick-yes, Robert-yes, John-yes, Susan-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

137.

Chief Hatcher’s TN receipts looked over and accepted

138.

Rick-yes, Robert-yes, John-yes, Susan-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

139.

Aynor Hoe Down volunteers: John & Rick

140.

John motioned to spend $60 on Hoe Down fee; Dalton seconded

141.

Rick-yes, Robert-yes, John-yes, Susan-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

142.

Michelle to fill out and send form in

143.

Note: Done on 7/14/14

144.

2nd Chiefs

145.

Cheryl: safe room: FEMA gives them to the state; still looking into it

146.

Possible alternate safe location in event of hurricane

147.

Not sure because we aren’t here at office all the time

148.

John: would it help as tribe since we have mobile homes; give tribal members a safer location?

149.

Darlene W: gone through all FEMA classes; not likely tribe will get it because there is a school a mile away

150.

Chief Hatcher

151.

To Mark A: good suggestion on program book

152.

We have & approved 2 master genealogy charts (James Hatcher, John Dimery)

153.

Will be required to have 80% core members when law changes

154.

2nd Chief Iris: will have percentages next month

155.

Need to see birth certificates/ census report in all files

156.

Rep Rutherford: proposal for SC gaming to everyone

157.

Request him to tailor it to only state recognized Indian tribes

158.

Add sewer/ septic project to monthly agenda

159.

4/4 vote was to begin with pump

160.

Drum briefing by Rick Hudnall

161.

2nd Chief Phil asked about who would teach, where, etc…

162.

TN property: 2 thank you letters framed, signed by everyone for them

163.

Neal: If I were in TN, can I go hunt, fish, etc… there?

164.

Susan: don’t know about hunt, up to Council

165.

He’d like $5/ day for electric though

166.

Susan: Chief Norris said it would be good spot for retreat, sweat lodge

167.

Pauwau 9/20: Santee

Dalton motioned to close the meeting; Susan seconded.

Meeting adjourned 9:25 pm.

Respectfully submitted by Michelle Hatcher on 7/30/14 at 11:51 pm.

[#minutes](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/hashtags/minutes) [#meeting](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/hashtags/meeting)

