---
title: ""
date: "2024-09-28T00:00:00Z"
lastmod: "2024-09-28T00:00:00Z"
url: "https://www.waccamaw.org/single-post/september-2021-open-meeting-summary"
categories:
author: ""
source: "wix"
source_guid: ""
---

# September 2021 Open Meeting Summary

-

Michelle Hatcher
- Sep 20, 2021
- 4 min read

Tribal Open Meeting Summary 8/6/2021  held at the tribal office and via Zoom

1.

CM’s Susan, Marie,  Glenn, Marion, and CoC Dalton present. 2C John, VC Cheryl, Elder Larry J, and Filekeeper Starla present. CM Robert joined via Zoom at 8:21pm.

2.

Financial Report (as of 9/2/2021, 11:36am on the CNB site)

  1.

General Fund: $18487.27

  2.

Building Fund: $4390.83

  3.

Cemetery Fund: $288.00 (CNB) + $1560.96

3.

Online Votes

  1.

8/9 Approve getting security cameras

    1.

Susan-yes, Marie-yes, Marion-no, Glenn-yes, Dalton-yes

  2.

8/18 Cancel Pauwau due to rising Covid numbers

    1.

Susan-yes, Marie-yes, Marion-yes, Glenn-yes, Dalton-yes

  3.

8/26 Approve August meeting summary

    1.

Susan-yes, Marie-yes, Marion-yes, Glenn-yes, Dalton-yes

  4.

8/28 Approve fuel receipts totalling $56.00

    1.

Susan-yes, Marie-yes, Marion-yes, Glenn-yes, Dalton-yes

4.

New Business

  1.

CoC Dalton swore Chris Hatcher in as CM

  2.

Receipts

    1.

Glenn to check with Sunhouse

  3.

Bank Balances

    1.

Susan and Michelle to work on this together

  4.

Committee Reports

    1.

Building & Grounds: Glenn C

      1.

Price jumped on materials for sewer project

        1.

Chris H to see about getting them at a lower price

        2.

Chris H: just give me a list

      2.

Cameras installed

        1.

Only working on 2.4Ghz, not 5

      3.

2C John: Marion said there were 39 barrels still here

        1.

Susan: we can do what we want  with them

        2.

Glenn: do a driveby for members

        3.

Susan: make up bags for normal PW weekend

        4.

Yard sale items still here too

        5.

2C John: Can you do both a yard sale and giveaway?

        6.

Glenn: would suggest different times

        7.

Marion: items are different sizes & colors; would be better to let people pick through them

        8.

Dalton: could take to Habitat for Humanity

        9.

Chris H: or Toys for Tots

        10.

Susan: If Habitat sells it, why can’t we?

        11.

2C John: Goodwill will take it all

        12.

Susan: motion to offer it for tribal members until 11/1 to go through the items, give to charity after; Glenn seconded

        13.

VC Cheryl: difference is Habitat will pick it up

        14.

2C John: how would we advertise it?

        15.

Susan, Glenn: Facebook

        16.

Susan-yes, Marie-yes, Marion-yes, Chris-yes, Glenn-yes, Dalton-yes

    2.

Arts & Crafts: Susan

      1.

Nothing new

    3.

Pauwau: Dalton, Susan

      1.

Pauwau 2021 canceled

        1.

Susan: some vendors have sent checks, sending them back

        2.

Some vendors said to hold their check for next year

        3.

Any future checks that come in will be sent back with a letter

        4.

Glenn: emailed my contacts

        5.

Michelle: Do we still need a meeting Thursday?

        6.

Susan: need to finish T-shirt order

      2.

Susan: Chief Hatcher suggests instead of the number of years we’ve had the Pauwau, just put the year on the front of the program book (ex: 2022 Pauwau)

        1.

Pauwau committee and Council to discuss it

    4.

Drum: Glenn

      1.

We played at Richia’s funeral

    5.

Campground: Glenn

      1.

In same position as last month

      2.

Dalton: Last month, you said it would cost approximately $70k to upgrade?

        1.

Glenn: people at the sewer place put an amount on it for hookups at each site

        2.

Codes for County, EMS Right-of-way

        3.

Dalton: would do a dump station to start; it’s cheaper

        4.

2C John: Horry County said no

        5.

Chris H: they have one at Carolina Pines

        6.

2C John: they said a dump station was not acceptable

        7.

Chris H: have a friend who can check it out

    6.

Files

      1.

Dalton: meeting tomorrow?

        1.

Glenn: let us look at the calendar

        2.

Dalton: Michelle and I can’t

        3.

Glenn: let’s do it the third weekend

      2.

 Resolution: SHH-08-06-2021-001: Second Chance Membership Renewal

        1.

Dalton: Susan, did you make changes?

        2.

Susan: changed it and Chief Hatcher sent it back that night, just needs signatures

  5.

Resolution: JT-05-07-2021-01: Tribal Government Candidate Requirements: 3rd Reading

    1.

Susan: “attendance...2 years” is still saying if you’ve been a member for less than 2 years, it’s still required, right?

      1.

2C John: correct

      2.

Susan: some can’t meet that right now

        1.

VC Cheryl: especially with last year’s attendance

    2.

VC Cheryl: does it also apply to appointed seats?

    3.

Susan: we’ve never sat down to define “member in good standing”

      1.

Dalton: it should be in the constitution

        1.

2C John: briefly

        2.

Glenn: I don’t think it defines it well enough

        3.

2C John: think we discussed up-to-date on dues, not in jail

        4.

Dalton: not inactive/ expired, fees up-to-date, nothing before tribal judge

        5.

2C John: found it in Article VI (b)

        6.

VC Cheryl: think it’s more in the membership agreement

        7.

Chief Hatcher: it’s determined by Council

        8.

VC Cheryl: with Craig, it was through the membership agreement

        9.

Susan read the membership agreement to those in the meeting

        10.

VC Cheryl: how many times has it been modified for different situations?

    4.

Glenn motioned to accept the Resolution; Marion seconded

      1.

Susan-yes, Marie-yes, Marion-yes, Chris-yes, Glenn-yes, Dalton-yes

  6.

2nd Chiefs

    1.

2C John: propose we decorate for Christmas, decorations, lights, have a drive-through for money

      1.

Decorate, have contests, make money, gather donations

      2.

Susan: Conway does it

      3.

VC Cheryl: consider the price of electricity

    2.

Glenn: suggested Turkey SHoot

      1.

Chief Randy does it every year; cooks & sells food

      2.

Think Aynor would be more into a turkey shoot than decorations

      3.

Do it every Thursday/ Friday night beginning late October

      4.

Dalton: cost to set up?

        1.

Glenn: minimal; 20 posts, lights

        2.

Have someone to sponsor the price of a ham or turkey (ex: IGA)

        3.

Susan: sometimes you can catch a good manager’s special price at Food Lion

    3.

Dalton: Who is interested into looking into these possibilities?

      1.

Susan-yes, Marie-yes, Marion-yes, Chris-yes, Glenn-yes, Dalton-yes

      2.

Chris: start small, add more with the crowd

      3.

Susan: cook hot dogs, chips, hot chocolate

      4.

Dalton: Glenn, write a proposal with cost

        1.

Glenn: and 2C John, do one for decorations & drive-through

        2.

2C John: yes, will do

    4.

Susan: Do they bring their own guns?

      1.

Elder Larry: limit it; some professionals spend $2-3k on a gun

        1.

Have different classes; use home guns

        2.

Susan: have different age groups

    5.

VC Cheryl

      1.

Please wear a mask; being tested tomorrow

    6.

2C Alan: thank you to everyone who helped over the last few weeks

      1.

Meeting 9/27 with museum; hope all tribal leaders show up

  7.

Dalton

    1.

Propose that because of Covid numbers, we go back to straight Zoom meetings until the numbers come back down or are under control; Marie seconded

      1.

Susan-yes, Marie-yes, Marion-yes, Chris-yes, Glenn-yes, Robert-yes, Dalton-yes

  8.

Chief Hatcher

    1.

Newsletter

      1.

Dalton: think Ms. Debra was supposed to do it; VC Cheryl assisting

        1.

Talked to VC Cheryl- have to make changes to reflect that the Pauwau was canceled

    2.

Textbook picture: Carson’s picture is being requested for another textbook

    3.

Thanks to 2C Alan for museum work

    4.

I am the new Chair of SC Indian Development Council, which funds college students books and more

    5.

Some people who came to our Pauwau have Covid, are in ICU

      1.

Please wear a mask

    6.

10/19 Veteran Stand Down with DHEC doing Covid testing & vaccines

      1.

Testing, vaccines, food available to everyone

      2.

2C John: put barrels out that day too

      3.

2C John: What time?

        1.

Chief Hatcher: will double- check, but I think 11am

    7.

Talked to Glenn and Marion about the healing ceremony at Boone

      1.

Will be moved to February; one in November has been canceled

Susan motioned to close the meeting; Robert seconded.

Meeting adjourned at 8:40 pm.

Respectfully submitted by Michelle Hatcher on 9/20/2021 at 1:45 pm

Tags:

- [meeting](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/meeting)
- [Native](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/native)
- [minutes](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/minutes)

