---
title: ""
date: "2024-09-28T00:00:00Z"
lastmod: "2024-09-28T00:00:00Z"
url: "https://www.waccamaw.org/single-post/2016/08/10/march-2016-meeting-summary-03042016"
categories:
author: ""
source: "wix"
source_guid: ""
---

# March 2016 Open Meeting Summary 03042016

-

Doug Hatcher
- Aug 7, 2016
- 3 min read

Tribal Open Meeting Summary 03/04/2016 held at the Tribal Office in Aynor, SC

1.

CM’s Dalton, Mark, Rick, Homer, Robert, and CoC John present. Susan arrived later in the meeting.

2.

Prior to each open meeting, there will be an open forum period for members to speak for up to 3 minutes to facilitate better communication between Council and members

3.

Members are encouraged to provide solutions to problems

4.

Council will go over comments during the meeting if possible, by email or during the next meeting if not

5.

February minutes read

6.

Mark motioned to accept; Homer seconded

7.

Rick-abstain, Dalton-yes, Mark-yes, Homer-yes, Robert-yes, John-yes

8.

Financial Report

9.

General Fund: $9995.36

10.

Building Fund: $3420.24

11.

Old Business

12.

Cemetery encroachment: trying to talk to new owners of land

13.

Cheryl talked to Hilda; in 1987, 2 acres of land was donated to the church; surveyor paid to mark off the 2 acres, but James wouldn’t sign off & map not registered. The markers got moved & put up, so it’s possible James is right. Get in touch with the family, decide on 2 acres, mark it off, & everyone sign off on map

14.

Policy letters:

15.

Use of tribal logo: last looked at in Aug 2014

16.

Camping on the grounds: stay up to 2 weeks

17.

No charge for camping while coming to do tribal work

18.

No tent camping fees

19.

Use of the tribal office: $50 ($25 deposit, $25 rental)

20.

Mark: cleaning fee should go to the person having to clean it

21.

Use of the tribal grounds: $100 ($50 deposit, $50 rental)

22.

Dan: will need to post an hours sign

23.

Dalton: do it as $200 in 2 hour increments

24.

Spousal membership- tabled

25.

Membership files: tabled

26.

Genealogy protocols

27.

What goes in file: application, genealogy chart, membership agreement (if applicable), all pertinent documents

28.

New Business

29.

Committee Reports

30.

Buildings & Grounds: Rick

31.

Roof & driveway worked on

32.

Needs another coat; still leaking

33.

Stockpiling dirt

34.

Need to work on small lawnmower; get price

35.

Rick motioned to let Donnie take the tractor in for evaluation for repairs at Rabon’s; Dalton seconded

36.

Dalton-yes, Mark-yes, Rick-yes, Homer-yes, Robert-yes, Susan-yes, John-yes

37.

Mark: please remove leaf piles at cemetery

38.

John: cemetery fund: $411.20

39.

Arts & Crafts

40.

Susan: John Abrams’ certification needs to be signed by Phil

41.

3/23 UNC Rock Hill Native Studies; still have empty wall space

42.

Classes: going to set up schedule; will be a charge to cover materials

43.

Mark: gourds out in building

44.

John: can you videotape classes?

45.

Susan: yes, but charge for tapes

46.

Chief Hatcher: game parts bill to be introduced for all game parts

47.

If you are certified and want to use game parts, let Susan know; compiling list

48.

Grants

49.

SCAC: looking for updated biographies from our artists

50.

Accommodations Tax: $16k; have to give 2 presentations to committee

51.

Chief Hatcher: think the prison program should be a statewide program with John Abrams in charge

52.

John A: Chaplain of Prisons will come to CMA meetings

53.

Pauwau

54.

Contracts received back

55.

Next meeting 3/9

56.

Would like at least one Elder there each month

57.

Need to decide on program book cover theme; send us suggestions

58.

Chief Hatcher: be particular with vendors you invite

59.

We will have exclusive use of the park this year

60.

Elder Doug: Pee Dee Pauwau April 2 in McColl

61.

Constitution

62.

Revamped constitution given to Council; will email newest constitution to Council

63.

No Constitution committee meeting in April

64.

Drum: played at Loris Middle Multicultural Arts Festival

65.

Membership apps & Fees

66.

Process developed by Iris

67.

John: see a logistics problem if the files have to be sent to Scott

68.

Log files when received

69.

Dalton: send copies to genealogists

70.

Chief Hatcher: should only have to check book for missing names

71.

Susan: check file for missing items; send back if not complete with a standard form stating what’s missing

72.

John: would like to see tracking numbers (receipts) for files

73.

Jeania: received 2 incomplete files from Johnnie

74.

Membership fees (Jeania’s proposals)

75.

John will work with Jeania, Dalton, Michelle

76.

Jeania: think there should be an annual due date

77.

Inactive Status

78.

Dalton motioned to remove the following due to lack of responsibility & membership dues; Homer seconded

79.

Karen Jacobs

80.

Phillip Davis

81.

Kayla Davis

82.

John A: leave them on roll to maintain quantum for recognition

83.

Homer: has to be some personal responsibility

84.

John A: tribe should be treated as a family, not a group or club

85.

Chief Hatcher: Jeania should have the % with her each month

86.

Receipts

87.

$82.07 check 678 to John Turner for Family Day

88.

Chief

89.

SCIAC &  NAAC meeting today

90.

Introduced 356 (former s611)

91.

Proposal to designate commissioner as native

92.

Bill for free hunting & fishing

93.

Bill for all game parts

Mark motioned to close the meeting; Susan seconded.

Meeting adjourned 7:58 pm.

Respectfully submitted by Michelle Hatcher on 04/01/16 at 5:49 am.

[#minutes](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/hashtags/minutes) [#meeting](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/hashtags/meeting)

