---
title: ""
date: "2024-09-29T00:00:00Z"
lastmod: "2024-09-29T00:00:00Z"
url: "https://www.waccamaw.org/single-post/2019/03/20/march-2019-open-meeting-summary"
categories:
author: ""
source: "wix"
source_guid: ""
---

# March 2019 Open Meeting Summary

-

Doug Hatcher
- Mar 20, 2019
- 5 min read

Tribal Open Meeting Summary 3/1/2019  held at the Tribal Office in Aynor, SC

1.

CM’s Dalton, Marion, Alan, John, Robert, and CoC Rick present. Elders Doug, Becky, and Avalene present.

2.

Financial Report

3.

General Fund: $14,476.05

4.

Building Fund: $350.55

5.

Online Votes

6.

2/13 Sign Property Deed

7.

Alan-yes, John-yes, Marion-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-yes

8.

2/21 Decide which equipment building to use

9.

Alan-yes, John-yes, Marion-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-yes

10.

Purchase original item as discussed

11.

2/27 Approve February Meeting Summary

12.

Alan-yes, John-abstain, Marion-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-yes

13.

Old Business

14.

Cemetery Update

15.

John: how many cemeteries do we have?

16.

Hallman Cemetery: 5-6 sites

17.

One across field here at the office

18.

Homer’s family- Jewel Road?

19.

Ridge Road- in our names

20.

John: Are these deed, are there boundaries, who owns the land?

21.

Will we have the same fight on our hands with the others?

22.

Want to be proactive

23.

Let 2C Cheryl research

24.

Dalton: should probably set up a committee

25.

Rick: Jeffrey BEan has documentation and research on it

26.

New Business

27.

Donnie’s AC: 2 valves on the AC- reverse valve and one by it- one or both are bad

28.

Both valves need to be replaced

29.

James Air got it running ($85 service call), but now it’s back to not running

30.

Parts have warranty; Labor has no warranty, have to pay

31.

Dalton: what’s the bottom line?

32.

Rick: $500-700 to fix

33.

John:ducting issues too according to Donnie; Can James Air take care of it too?

34.

Rick: yes, probably $200

35.

Glenn C: he’ll probably want to put new duct work in

36.

Rick: have to tear up the floor to fix it

37.

Alan motioned to fix the unit up to $700; Rick seconded

38.

Alan-yes, John-yes, Marion-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-yes

39.

Larry J: Horses at events

40.

Rick: therapy riding on Fishing Day

41.

Picked Larry for gathering the cost of the horse and upkeep for a year

42.

Larry: my horses are performance horses; kids can feed, but not ride

43.

Larry gave Council monthly upkeep figures; Larry will board the horse

44.

Approximately $1500/year (feed, shots, etc) per horse

45.

Rick: need older, calmer horses for therapy riding

46.

Horse cost: $300-500

47.

Larry: more people would stay during the Pauwau; charge to ride

48.

Do a Saturday event every month

49.

John: can we demo this to gauge interest?

50.

Robert: cost of the saddle, bridle?

51.

Larry: I have them

52.

Dalton: see if we can get someone to sponsor it

53.

As far as monthly fee, send out letter to members for donations

54.

John: shouldn’t we have events for tribal members instead of outsiders?

55.

Alan: at our events, the same people show up

56.

Dalton: we could do a potluck every month

57.

Alan: we could do a Fishing Day just for tribal kids

58.

Larry: have an old folks Fishing Day

59.

Elder Doug: send out email and survey for interest

60.

Dalton: we could combine them all into 1 day

61.

Rick: I want Larry to head this up

62.

Mike G: it’s also highly recommended for those with PTSD

63.

Rick: think of the cost, should we do it, etc…

64.

I will send letter if it’s a go

65.

Larry: some costs would taken care of by me

66.

Committee Reports

67.

Buildings & Grounds: Glenn

68.

Drum put into the ground; need pipe and pump

69.

Thank Elder Doug for the drum

70.

More trees have been cut

71.

3/31: pressure washing, weather permitting

72.

Trencher: $125/ day to rent one that needs horses; $200-225 for self-moving one

73.

John motioned to rent self-propelled trencher; Rick seconded

74.

Alan-yes, John-yes, Marion-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-yes

75.

Dalton: Just sent Susan an email about it too

76.

Work Days are marked on calendar at office

77.

Working on electric 3/23 during Spring Equinox

78.

Marion: is Chief Hatcher meeting on the 16th with the other chiefs about moving to the governor's office

79.

Marion: cement pad for Breast Cancer van

80.

Rick: sent Susan an email for information

81.

Need to look at locations for easiest access in/out

82.

Need to know whether they need 110 or 220

83.

Discuss on 3/23 at Spring Equinox

84.

Arts & Crafts

85.

John: certification requires 3 items

86.

Michelle: and the application from 2C Phil/ Susan

87.

Dalton: I couldn’t tell you much about art and the techniques

88.

We’ll need certified artists in the room to when Council looks at items

89.

Rick motioned to let Susan come up with the guidelines for when Council looks at items; Robert seconded

90.

Alan-yes, John-yes, Marion-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-yes

91.

John: each different item would have to have its own criteria (necklaces, dreamcatchers, medicine bag)

92.

Glenn: by state law, you only need to be part of the tribe to create Native art

93.

Elder Doug: have grapevines if people need them

94.

Robert: and you must have certification paper showing when you sell your art as Waccamaw

95.

Pauwau: Glenn

96.

Need an Elder to show up to the meetings

97.

Food vendors will be required to send in their regular menus before coming

98.

Trying to get Tina to do frybread- she needs to come up with money

99.

And see if she will feed volunteers/ dancers

100.

Doing at least 2 fundraisers this year

101.

Drum: got an okay from Jason from Red Oak

102.

Want at least 2 drums to avoid downtime

103.

Elder Doug: want women on the drum

104.

Maybe survey people to see if there are/ will be issues

105.

John: would it benefit us if women charge less?

106.

Alan: also talk with dancers to get their thoughts

107.

Dalton: Chief Hatcher should have the notebook containing last year’s dancers’ information

108.

Rick: we want to keep with tradition

109.

Traditions evolve over time

110.

Dalton: Meeting 3/29-31- Summertown, SC, Camp Bob Cooper, exit 115

111.

Rick and Michelle to attend

112.

Elder Standing Bear: some will have video of their work

113.

I feel they can do as well as men

114.

It’s a talent- they have it or don’t

115.

Rick: should they be separate from men?

116.

Elder Standing Bear: mixed group

117.

Elder Becky: think they should be able to drum and be paid the same

118.

Elder Doug: have a Pauwau done completely by women

119.

Dalton: Looking for volunteers, just email us

120.

Submit pictures and stories for the program book now so they can be proofed

121.

Meetings are the second Thursday at 6pm at the tribal office

122.

John: can we post ads on the website? (for all but the $50 ads)

123.

Michelle: would have to check with Doug

124.

Put QR Code on AD sheet?

125.

Next meeting 3/14 at 6pm

126.

Hemp: Rick

127.

Spoke with Richard & talked to 3 others over the last month

128.

No one has said not to do it

129.

Priced seed

130.

CBD- raised, cloned, oil- 5lb bag: $2500

131.

Alan: how many would that plant?

132.

Michelle: SC General Assembly passed the law to remove the cap on the number of farmers who can grow hemp; still needs to go to Senate

133.

Rick: Richard thought it would be $1000/ acre for what he priced, think fiber

134.

John: our cost would be?

135.

Rick: not worked out yet

136.

How weather-resistant is it?

137.

Rick: should be okay, except during hurricane

138.

Rick: federal laws at time will tell us if we can get crop insurance

139.

Oil is probably quick money for short time (probably 5-10 years)

140.

John: fiber is probably more long-term

141.

Larry: seeds get worse each time you reuse it, especially with hybrids

142.

John: also look at people investing

143.

Example: put $1000 in, get $2000 back

144.

Rick: Chief Hatcher also talking to Catawba

145.

Resolution DH-03-01-2019-001: Exemption for Concealed Weapons Permit Holders: First Reading

146.

Elder Becky: restrict it to members

147.

Marion: only pistols, no longarms

148.

Glenn: so what we’re saying is if someone comes in and shoots, we’ll have to go to our car to get our weapon?

149.

Dalton: better to call the law

150.

Marie: 3/15 benefit dinner for Trevor at 6pm at HGTC: $65/ person

151.

Rick: thoughts on tribe buying 2 tickets and sending 2 representatives from the tribe?

152.

Council nodded in approval

153.

Rick authorized $130 for Dalton & Michelle to represent the tribe at the HGTC benefit dinner on 3/15

John motioned to close the meeting; Robert seconded.

Meeting adjourned 8:34 pm.

Respectfully submitted by Michelle Hatcher on 3/20/19 at 12:41 am.

[#meeting](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/hashtags/meeting) [#minutes](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/hashtags/minutes)

