---
title: ""
date: "2024-09-28T00:00:00Z"
lastmod: "2024-09-28T00:00:00Z"
url: "https://www.waccamaw.org/single-post/may-2023-open-meeting-summary"
categories:
author: ""
source: "wix"
source_guid: ""
---

# May 2023 Open Meeting Summary

-

Michelle Hatcher
- May 22, 2023
- 2 min read

Tribal Open Meeting Summary 5/5/2023  held at the tribal office and via Zoom

1.

CMs Marion, Glenn, Chris, Robert, and CoC Dalton were present. Elder Larry J was present. 2Cs Alan F and John T were present. 2C Alan served as a proxy for Marie.

2.

Members Nancy J, Randy W, Kevin D, Lisa L, Carol H, Joshua W, Jennifer R, and David B were present.

3.

Financial Report (as of 5/3/2023 at 11:30 pm)

  1.

General Fund: $29,979.13

  2.

Building Fund: $3267.00

  3.

Cemetery Fund: $407.00

4.

Old Business

  1.

Online Votes

    1.

4/13 Approve April Open Meeting Summary

      1.

Glenn-yes, Marion-yes, 2C Alan (Marie)-yes, Robert-yes, Dalton-yes

    2.

4/15 Allow Glenn to take the bush hog to see if it can be repaired and if not, allow him to keep it

      1.

Glenn-abstain, Marion-yes, 2C Alan (Marie)-yes, Robert-yes, Dalton-yes

    3.

4/15 Allow Glenn to take the junk tractor to see if it can be repaired and if not, allow him to keep it

      1.

Glenn-abstain, Marion-yes, 2C Alan (Marie)-yes, Robert-yes, Dalton-yes

5.

New Business

  1.

Receipts

    1.

Fuel: $63.58 to be paid back to Glenn for Sunhouse fuel bill; Check 1068

      1.

Glenn-yes, Marion-yes, 2C Alan (Marie)-yes, Robert-yes, Dalton-yes

  2.

Committee Reports

    1.

Buildings & Grounds: Glenn

      1.

We will have a work day if the rain holds out

    2.

Arts & Crafts

      1.

Lisa L: I am a potter and participate in the Native American Studies Center at USC-Lancaster

        1.

5/20 pottery

        2.

Some of my pottery is in their permanent collection

        3.

Kevin D: she does really good work

    3.

Grants: Michelle

      1.

We’re still waiting to hear from the SCAC about a School Day grant

      2.

Chief Hatcher put in for a grant from the CMA

    4.

Pauwau: Dalton

      1.

Working on budget

      2.

Need a story on the history & traditions of the drum for the program book

        1.

Per 2C Alan: Chad P, Kevin D, and Andy S can help with stories

      3.

Discussing sending people on the Gate Pass List wristbands ahead of time to indicate they have paid

      4.

Looking for pictures of our older members

      5.

Next meeting is 5/11 @ 6:30 pm

    5.

Drum: Chris

      1.

Kaya will send something for the drum too

    6.

Files

      1.

2C Alan: Paula Cribb: is it her responsibility to contact us?

        1.

CoC Dalton-yes

        2.

2C Alan: When does it go from honorary to a full member?

        3.

CoC Dalton: when the executive branch nominates her for full membership, Tribal Council confirms it

      2.

Michelle: there probably will not be a meeting tomorrow due to absences

  3.

2C Alan

    1.

Edisto had a good pauwau

    2.

5/6 pauwau in Pickens

  4.

2C John

    1.

Still working with the CCU Archiving Project

      1.

Members can donate items, pictures, etc…

  5.

CoC Dalton: Chief Hatcher received an honorary PhD in Humane Letters today

    1.

David B: Congratulations to the Chief

  6.

Audience

    1.

SD (sorry, didn’t catch the name): someone said something about a cornhole game; I’ve got a friend who will donate a set; he just needs to know how to paint it

      1.

Chris H: have someone who can paint the tribal logo

      2.

Glenn C: easier to paint as one color

    2.

CoC Dalton: keep Jerry S in your thoughts; he recently had surgery and is home resting

    3.

Glenn C: I met a man (Floyd) in Hemingway and picked up broken pieces of clay pots from the river (showed the pieces)

      1.

One stone was used to make fire

      2.

Spearheads and pieces to a pipe

    4.

Marion C: CCU movie: Beans

      1.

Chief and Marion were there

      2.

I was pleased with the participation with the tribe and students

Marion motioned to close the meeting; Glenn seconded.

	Glenn-yes, Marion-yes, 2C Alan (Marie)-yes, Robert-yes, Dalton-yes

The meeting adjourned at 7:36 pm.

Respectfully submitted by Michelle Hatcher on 5/22/2023 at 4:17 pm.

![ree](https://static.wixstatic.com/media/e51f96_476b48856f3b48738318016a2aaf83d0~mv2.jpg/v1/fill/w_126,h_71,al_c,q_80,usm_0.66_1.00_0.01,blur_2,enc_avif,quality_auto/e51f96_476b48856f3b48738318016a2aaf83d0~mv2.jpg)

Tags:

- [meeting](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/meeting)
- [Native](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/native)
- [minutes](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/minutes)

