---
title: ""
date: "2024-09-27T00:00:00Z"
lastmod: "2024-09-27T00:00:00Z"
url: "https://www.waccamaw.org/single-post/2017/09/14/september-2017-open-meeting-summary"
categories:
author: ""
source: "wix"
source_guid: ""
---

# September 2017 Open Meeting Summary

-

Doug Hatcher
- Sep 14, 2017
- 6 min read

Tribal Open Meeting Summary 9/01/2017 held at the Tribal Office in Aynor, SC

1.

CM’s John, Mark, Dalton, Susan, and CoC Rick  present. 2C Cheryl arrived at 8pm.

2.

Jeania Kidder was sworn into Tribal Council by CoC Rick

3.

Financial Report

4.

General Fund:  $8796.48

5.

Building Fund: $1286.27

6.

Mark: thought the building fund account was supposed to be closed since the committee dissolved?

7.

Susan: closing the building fund account won’t let us track money given to specific projects; people have donated for specific items

8.

Cemetery Fund: $531.26

9.

Online Votes

10.

7/13 Vote to Hire/ Disregard PI in Sampson case

11.

Susan- disregard, John-disregard, Mark-disregard, Dalton-disregard, Rick-disregard

12.

8/10 Approve June Minutes with Changes

13.

Susan-abstain, John-yes, Mark-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-yes

14.

8/10 Approve July Minutes

15.

Susan-yes, John-yes, Mark-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-abstain

16.

8/10 Pay fuel receipts for 6 weeks $80.78 Check 583

17.

Susan-yes, John-yes, Mark-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-yes

18.

Old Business

19.

Roof Case Update: decided not to hire PI

20.

CoC Rick: want to refile

21.

Susan: police have to serve him first

22.

CoC Rick motioned to refile; Mark seconded

23.

Want it to fall around 12/25, so Oct 1

24.

Susan: not sure how long it took to put it together the first time

25.

CoC Rick: want to do my part by mid-Nov

26.

John: then file now

27.

CoC amended his motion to refile now

28.

Susan-yes, Jeania-yes, John-yes, Mark-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-yes

29.

Attendance Proposal by CM John

30.

It is used to show if CM’s are doing their job

31.

Handout passed out

32.

John: it goes by the oath and also gives us the ability to remove people for cause

33.

Elder Dan: isn’t this already in the constitution?

34.

John: no, just in the oath

35.

It also asks for 3 Elders to be present to help ensure we act constitutionally

36.

We request that the Elders make their own attendance policy

37.

We also want 1 2nd Chief present since they can give proxy votes

38.

We are looking into electronic meetings (Skype, Google Hangouts, etc)

39.

Scheduled activities need our government’s presence

40.

Susan: would like to change the online vote response to 48 hours; I may not look at email within 24 hours

41.

CoC Rick: encourage 24; require 48

42.

Dalton: not sure we need to require it; we get at least 4 responses quickly

43.

Mark: I think with any online votes, we should discuss and then vote

44.

John: this is a good baseline

45.

Elder Position: Ronnie Hatcher was nominated

46.

Susan: we’ve seen you sporadically; how committed are you to coming to meetings?

47.

Ronnie: committed, just not the last few months

48.

John: have you read the constitution about Elder job requirements?

49.

Ronnie:no

50.

John: can you use email, etc to communicate?

51.

Ronnie: FB Messenger

52.

John: what motivates you to accept the position?

53.

Ronnie: old, it’s a sense of pride

54.

Dalton: what do you think your role in the Elders will be?Elders position is to nag Council when we do something wrong. Can you handle telling us no, knowing we may argue back and do it without alienating anyone?

55.

Ronnie: yes, I can handle arguing

56.

Dalton: you have to know the constitution to be able to tell us we’re wrong

57.

Ronnie: comfortable with that

58.

CoC Rick: you were nominated, but did you want it?

59.

Ronnie: I thought about it

60.

CoC Rick: will you be able to attend functions?

61.

Ronnie: should be there

62.

Dalton: how is your health?

63.

Ronnie: okay except my knees

64.

Jeania: being an Elder is an honor. Did accept the nomination out of interest or obligation?

65.

Ronnie: thought about it

66.

John: how do you think we do as a Tribal Council?

67.

Ronnie: right now, good

68.

John: I wish people would tell us if we aren’t doing good; we need input

69.

Elder Dan: no one has come to me and said anything about Tribal Council

70.

Mark motioned to accept Ronnie as Elder; Susan seconded

71.

Susan-yes, Jeania-yes, John-yes, Mark-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-yes

72.

Ronnie sworn into Council of Elders by CoC Rick

73.

New Business

74.

Mark: we need to help Donnie out; Homer used to, but now he’s starving. We need to help our own. He takes care of this land.

75.

Susan: he gets $800/month and has no house payment

76.

Rick: I’ve cut grass a couple of times with Wayne & Mark has a good argument

77.

Mark: when he moved here, he used his new lawnmower and wore it out on our grounds

78.

Jeania: does he get reimbursed gas?

79.

Susan: we pay the fuel bill

80.

Rick: how many hours does he spend mowing?

81.

Mark: he does 2-3 hours in the morning and evening, depending on heat,

82.

Rick: so roughly 100 hours/ month

83.

Mark: if you’re trying to look at each hour and dollar spent, it’s the wrong way to do a member

84.

John: what was the deal on the contract: did he ask for money?

85.

Mark: the last contract is null and void because it was breached; he does more than cut grass; he takes out the trash

86.

Susan: we don’t have to decide it tonight & I would like to bring the Chief in; you’re making it demanding

87.

Mark: not demanding, but you’re putting a dollar amount on him

88.

Susan: my mother gets $700/month and survives

89.

Mark: your word- survives; & you don’t help her at all?

90.

Dalton: I don’t care what he does; I care what he needs

91.

Mark: I care what he needs

92.

Dalton: Michelle does a lot each month

93.

Mark: it’s different when you’re in an AC’d home

94.

Dalton: you brought up the contract

95.

Mark: it’s null & void

96.

Dalton: then we need to make a new contract, yes?

97.

Mark: yes

98.

Dalton: then we can put it in the contract

99.

CoC Rick: important part is that he needs food & I will take Donnie to the grocery store

100.

CoC Rick motioned to spend $100, but wants Tribal Council’s opinion

101.

John gave $50, others donated

102.

John: we will discuss it at the next work meeting; Dalton agreed

103.

Mark: and have Chief here

104.

Amended to discuss it at the next work meeting with Chief & Donnie

105.

Susan: and bring up the mailbox

106.

Thanks to everyone who donated

107.

Susan

108.

Wedding for 9/2 won’t be here because of rain; Plan B is the park from 1-4

109.

Propose that when a meeting falls on Labor Day weekend, we move it to the second Friday; Mark seconded

110.

Susan-yes, Jeania-yes, John-yes, Mark-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-yes

111.

Dalton

112.

FB has a new feature to let you donate your birthday to causes; we received $75 for mine

113.

CoC Rick:Richard called about his ID card

114.

Susan: 2C Cheryl is working on it and will try to get with Jeania

115.

Jeania: I will call her

116.

Fuel Receipts

117.

$73.96 Check 586

118.

Susan-yes, Jeania-yes, John-yes, Mark-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-yes

119.

Committee Reports

120.

Arts & Crafts: Susan

121.

Found display cases, just need help getting them here

122.

Mark: a lot of rain in the old building; it needs work

123.

Certified artists: you can sell 1 item at the tribal book

124.

If it sells, you can decide if you want to sell next year in a booth

125.

Dalton: and you get to keep the money

126.

CoC Rick: looking at us purchasing items to sell for School Day from Mark Williams

127.

Susan: no, they use plastic

128.

Elder Dan: I don’t think we should either; we have called people out for it in the past

129.

Becky: you can make $5 items out of real materials; like Susan, not using plastic

130.

Fire Mountain Gems has great sales

131.

Susan: how many people do we need?

132.

CoC Rick: more than we’ve got now

133.

Mark: set up a day to make items

134.

CoC Rick: we need different ideas, choices to purchase

135.

Grants: Michelle

136.

SCAC: we didn’t get, according to their site

137.

Susan: we didn’t; we received decline letter today

138.

Pauwau: Michelle

139.

Ads to be sold

140.

Looking for older Pauwau pictures for program book

141.

Looking for volunteers for Nov for all areas; send any of us an email or call

142.

Next meeting 9/14

143.

CoC Rick: what are the chances of Hank and Homer getting a page?

144.

Susan: already covered

145.

Dalton: and anyone can buy a memoriam page

146.

Susan: we could have the meeting at my house if the hurricane comes

147.

We need volunteers to help build benches

148.

Glenn: do I need to go buy the materials?

149.

Dalton: if you can or take Susan or Michelle with the credit card

150.

Mark: concerned about safety if the blocks come apart

151.

Dalton, Susan: we’re gluing them together

152.

Drum: CoC Rick

153.

We played at Homer’s funeral

154.

Susan: y’all did good. Are you also doing School Day?

155.

CoC Rick: that’s the plan

156.

Old Business

157.

Cemetery Encroachment: 2C Cheryl

158.

They will pay for the survey & want us to pay the recording cost and deed

159.

We will probably have to pay more than them

160.

CoC Rick

161.

Timeframe?

162.

2C Cheryl: they’ve probably already done the survey, just need to vote to do the recording costs & deed

163.

Will it be a usable property?

164.

2C Cheryl: they took usable, so it would have to be, so vote to do the recording & deed contingent on usability

165.

John: motion we pay deed pre and recording fees out of escrow; Rick seconded

166.

Susan-yes, Jeania-yes, John-yes, Mark-yes, Dalton-yes, Rick-yes

167.

2C Cheryl

168.

LLC: it would be in our interest to not have Chief as an agent; chief has suggested that Terry be our go-to lawyer, perhaps he could be an agent

169.

Dalton: I would need to know the parameters & how much money he would want

170.

Find out the details and get back to us

171.

Salesforce Webinar 9/6

172.

Hope to meet with Doug this month and launch as early as October

173.

Rick: membership ID cards

174.

2C Cheryl: received Microsoft invite, need to get my username/password; Microsoft is paid up

175.

Need cards for Richard Turner, Glenn Turner

176.

Mark: and Belinda Chatham

177.

Michelle: and new cards for Jeania Kidder and Ronnie Hatcher showing their position

Rick motioned to close the meeting; Mark seconded.

Meeting adjourned 8:37 pm.

Respectfully submitted by Michelle Hatcher on 9/14/17 at 1:14 am.

[#meeting](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/hashtags/meeting) [#minutes](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/hashtags/minutes)

