---
title: ""
date: "2024-09-28T00:00:00Z"
lastmod: "2024-09-28T00:00:00Z"
url: "https://www.waccamaw.org/single-post/july-2024-open-meeting-summary"
categories:
author: ""
source: "wix"
source_guid: ""
---

# July 2024 Open Meeting Summary

-

Michelle Hatcher
- Jul 23, 2024
- 8 min read

Tribal Open Meeting Summary 7/12/2024  held at the tribal office and via Zoom

1.

CM’s Susan, Emily, Marion, Glenn, and Robert were present. Elders Larry, Charles, and Scott were present. 2C Alan, Acting Chief Cheryl, and Chief Hatcher were present.

2.

Members Linda A, Nancy J, Starla C, Carol H, Aaron F, Rebecca F, Coby F, David B, John T, Seth W, Steve T, Kevin D, Dr. Graham, David H, and Dr. Dillian were present. Guest Rodney B was present.

3.

Dalton H resigned from the Council. CM Susan is the next longest-serving member of the Council and takes the position as outlined in the tribal constitution.

4.

CM Susan was sworn in as CoC

5.

Financial Report (as of 7/9/2024 at 5:40 pm)

6.

General Fund: $41,291.29

7.

Building Fund: $1718.25

8.

Cemetery Fund: $407.00

9.

Old Business

10.

Online Votes

11.

6/20: Approve Summer Newsletter

12.

Susan-yes, Emily-yes, Marion-yes, Glenn-yes, Robert-abstain

13.

6/21: Renew Chamber of Commerce membership

14.

Susan-yes, Emily-yes, Marion-yes, Glenn-yes, Robert-yes

15.

6/27: Use up to $3000 for the water line

16.

Susan-yes, Emily-yes, Marion-yes, Glenn-yes, Robert-yes

17.

Survey Quotes

18.

Glenn: haven’t heard anything back

19.

Susan: I talked to Spartina in Conway but they have a lot of new business and are unable to help

20.

AC Cheryl: Lowcountry Land Trust has the money to help with surveys but it has to include a conservation project

21.

Marion: wait 30 days and then call Haines Survey in Richmond County

22.

Policy letters

23.

Printed some out; the darker print ones may replace the ones you already have

24.

Review for next month

25.

TN Land Sale

26.

AC Cheryl: Attorney Smith is working on it; needs documents from the TN office

27.

Chief Hatcher: I think I sent it to him

28.

AC Cheryl: send them to me and I’ll check

29.

SC Thrive

30.

Susan: haven’t heard anything back but will check next week

31.

Brookgreen Gardens

32.

Susan: I haven’t heard from Natalie

33.

October event: Susan, AC Cheryl, and Ronnie doing demonstrations

34.

10/24 at 10:30 am -12 pm

35.

New Business

36.

Chief Hatcher introduced Rodney Berry who is the former mayor of Marion and currently running for SC District-30 Senate seat

37.

Rodney B: SC has more taxes, more poverty; the needle has barely moved under McMaster

38.

Chief Hatcher introduced Colonel Patricia Sellers (retired); 28 years of service

39.

Current Chair of the Board of Trustees of the Cemetery

40.

Receipts

41.

Fuel: $75.73

42.

June meeting summary approval

43.

Susan motioned to accept; Marion seconded

44.

Susan-yes, Emily-yes, Marion-yes, Glenn-yes, Robert-abstain

45.

Committee Reports

46.

Longhouse Project: David H

47.

Concentrate on the logs; I can get them for free

48.

The council needs to provide a list of what they want the longhouse to look like

49.

There is some money left in the grant until September

50.

Dr. Dillian: $2500 left until 9/1

51.

Dr. Dillian

52.

Reed mats- premade, like privacy screen

53.

Thatch material to cover the full longhouse

54.

Historically accurate

55.

Premade could save money and work time

56.

Marion motioned to use thatch and reeds and order the materials for David H to use and store in the front trailer

57.

Susan: can we put Thompson water seal on the roof materials to make it last longer?

58.

David H: not sure thatch is natural

59.

Dr. DIllian: ut us

60.

Emily: Thompson makes a multi-purpose sealant

61.

Dr. Dillian: if it gives us another year or two, great

62.

AC Cheryl: Occaneechi village had no sealant and was weathered around the 1-year mark

63.

Emily: we’d have to reseal every year

64.

Susan: we could get a grant by the 1-year mark

65.

AC Cheryl: additional funds can be earmarked for it

66.

Emily: we’ll still going to have to maintain it

67.

AC Cheryl: thatch on top, mats on the side

68.

Dr. Dillian: reed privacy fence on the side, thatch on the roof with sheeting under it, use sealant all over

69.

David H: the reed materials are similar office blends

70.

Emily seconded

71.

Susan-yes, Emily-yes, Marion-yes, Glenn-yes, Robert-yes

72.

Buildings & Grounds: Glenn

73.

Received a $100 check made out to Glenn to use as he sees fit for things out here

74.

Marion: it would be best to sign it over to the tribe and put it in the B&G fund

75.

Starla C suggested a memorial for the person’s son in the PW program book as a thank-you

76.

1/4 page

77.

Chief Hatcher: the state will give us $50,000 in October

78.

We need a bathhouse & have to run pip from the office to the bathhouse

79.

Susan: I suggest putting it closer up here near the office

80.

Chief Hatcher: we still need to run pipe to the campsites

81.

Are we comfortable putting in a bathhouse for $50,000

82.

AC Cheryl: building design: part of the quote from Earth Design

83.

Use it to make getting larger grants easier

84.

2C Alan: is there a time limit on spending it?

85.

Chief Hatcher: not as far as I know

86.

Only received a phone call from the state

87.

AC Cheryl: if it can be used for design planning, the EPA grant could help

88.

Chief Hatcher: I’ll let you know when I have more

89.

Arts & Crafts: Susan

90.

Nothing new

91.

Grants: AC Cheryl & Michelle

92.

Donnelley: the decision should come soon about the mapping project

93.

Funding would come in December if approved

94.

$50,000/ year for 2 years

95.

EPA Community Change Grant: federal grant

96.

Technical Advisor (TA) Namita- SC hub will work with us to write the grant and create the budget

97.

Dr. Dillian / CCU will be the lead applicant

98.

Due date is 11/21

99.

We get a higher score if the budget is laid out

100.

3 months later, you have to be breaking ground on the project- community resilience hubs, FEMA spots, rain gardens, etc…

101.

SC SEA Grant with WRA

102.

Educational component with the longhouse

103.

Dollar A Day Fund

104.

Done by ACH

105.

Dr. Dillian: Catalyst grant

106.

We should hear something in August about $25,000/year for 2 years

107.

Newsletter

108.

Approved 6/20

109.

Need to find a way to send it out

110.

AC Cheryl: use Avery labels

111.

Pauwau: Michelle

112.

Looking for new stories of local cultural history

113.

Looking for pictures of traditional suks and regalia

114.

Finalized demonstrators to finalize the flier

115.

The drink tent may be a Pepsi event trailer

116.

Drum: Glenn

117.

Nothing new

118.

Archiving Project: Rebecca F

119.

Nothing new

120.

Files: Emily & Susan

121.

Received from 2C Alan: Miracle D (honorary)

122.

Rebecca Fecher (honorary to full)

123.

Susan: goes back to John Dimery

124.

Susan-yes, Emily-yes, Marion-yes, Glenn-yes, Robert-abstain

125.

Coby Fecher (honorary to full)

126.

Susan-yes, Emily-yes, Marion-yes, Glenn-yes, Robert-abstain

127.

Aaron Fecher (honorary to spousal)

128.

Susan-yes, Emily-yes, Marion-yes, Glenn-yes, Robert-abstain

129.

Next meeting: 7/13 at 10 am

130.

Website

131.

Wix has mobile issues; looking at Squarespace, free trial

132.

Links were sent to the Council on 7/8

133.

We can keep the Wix site active until we’re ready to switch

134.

Some of the Wix items can be loaded over to the new site

135.

We can transfer the Wix site and keep the remaining time but have to pay a full year upfront

136.

Glenn: ok with it; give it a try

137.

Glenn motioned to try the new site; Marion seconded

138.

Susan-yes, Emily-yes, Marion-yes, Glenn-yes, Robert-yes

139.

Fire ceremony dates: 9/21, 12/14

140.

Letters of Intent for the 2024 election: get them in

141.

Elders will need to nominate someone for the vacant council seat until the next election (2026)

142.

Susan’s seat would have been up for re-election in 2026

143.

AC Cheryl

144.

7/12: Council of Chiefs workgroup meeting to create the final draft of the treaty alliance

145.

7/26: we vote on it: Catawba and 7 state tribes who are signing on to it

146.

Signing ceremony: probably 9/14

147.

The date and location are by a vote of the Chiefs

148.

Susan

149.

I received an email from the Chamber of Commerce looking to work with nonprofits

150.

30 participants; team projects running from 9/2024 - 4/2025

151.

AC Cheryl: we need volunteers for the longhouse

152.

Is September too close to the pauwau to get it done?

153.

Ribbon cutting at 1 pm on 9/20 for the Interpretative Trail

154.

Zoom: Dalton has it paid for  full until the end of the year

155.

Is the tribe going to pick up the cost?

156.

Glenn motioned; Marion seconded for the tribe to take over the cost of Zoom

157.

Susan-yes, Emily-yes, Marion-yes, Glenn-yes, Robert-yes

158.

Chief Hatcher: once we do that, can I use it from home?

159.

Susan: Michelle could use the office pc email account

160.

Chief Hatcher: but could I host a Council of Chiefs meeting using it?

161.

Susan: yes

162.

Hot dog trailer

163.

 A letter of agreement to provide food for the PW, Family Day, Fishing Day, etc… with a renewal of every 3 years sent to Tony

164.

Can he have a free PW  vending and camping spot?

165.

Susan-yes, Emily-yes, Marion-yes, Glenn-yes, Robert-yes

166.

AC Cheryl: I had a conversation with Carol H about bookkeeping reconciliation

167.

She has agreed to take over bookkeeping reconciling monthly, and giving quarterly reports

168.

Carol H was asked to confirm the conversation and what she needs from the tribe

169.

Carol H: I can take it over

170.

Needs receipts added to where she can get access

171.

AC Cheryl: we can upload pictures of receipts to Drive

172.

Carol H: breakdown by month

173.

Glenn: will we get a monthly & quarterly report?

174.

Carol H: it would be a month behind because banks are a month behind

175.

AC Cheryl: receipts would still have to be approved as they’re brought in

176.

Monthly reconciliation to Carol to match receipts

177.

Need a breakdown by area and year-end

178.

Chief Hatcher

179.

Nominate Carol H as the Arts & Crafts committee chair to help educate kids

180.

Carol H: a little surprised; I have materials to use

181.

AC Cheryl: can you travel? Most things are done here

182.

Chief Hatcher: we’ll work out the details

183.

I asked the county for money to fill in the ditch

184.

How many loads of dirt did you bring in before, Glenn?

185.

Glenn: I think it was 50

186.

We’ll have to put in tile across the road to fill it in

187.

It would give us extra parking spots

188.

Glenn: we have campsites over there too

189.

Glenn: $9000 would be about 60 loads

190.

We could get someone to drop rocks into it

191.

Elder Charles: I brought some before and was told we couldn’t do that

192.

Chief Hatcher: I’ll check it out

193.

Ronnie F may have access to do it

194.

Cemetery

195.

I’ve been talking with Colonel Sellers (retired) and will work on a document

196.

We need a big map of the cemetery

197.

I think it was $2000 for a survey

198.

I will research the price and ask Council to fund it

199.

Marion: I thought we had a plat to it

200.

Glenn: not one for actual cemetery spots

201.

AC Cheryl: we need to keep the lawn cut and complete the fence

202.

Marion & Glenn have been out there

203.

Nancy J would like a spot there

204.

Will the trustees allow people to put in funds to be interned there

205.

Col. Sellers (retired): everything is on the table

206.

We need to put some things in writing

207.

Chief Hatcher: how do we allocate money?

208.

Susan: we have $407 in the cemetery fund, but understand there is also a personal account

209.

Glenn: Richard said there was still money to finish the fence

210.

Put up some materials

211.

Think all funds go through the tribe

212.

The Board of Trustees votes on how to spend the money and brings it to the Council for a check

213.

AC Cheryl: I recommend adding a trustee to the cemetery account

214.

Chief Hatcher: in fairness, the trustees raised that money

215.

Marion: we have to be accountable

216.

We haven’t seen their income and expenses

217.

Elder Larry: if you were already given two spots before this happened, do you still have them?

218.

Col. Sellers (retired): I will get an answer for you

219.

Linda A: I’m sure the Chief & trustees & Colonel can work together

220.

I need to get my spot

221.

I’ll help in any way I can

222.

IRS files have been done; state needs to be done

223.

The state registry is done

224.

Elders

225.

Larry: Elders & Chief Hatcher want Linda A to be an honorary elder

226.

Marion motioned; Glenn seconded to make Linda A an honorary elder

227.

Susan-yes, Emily-yes, Marion-yes, Glenn-yes, Robert-yes

228.

Dr. Dillian: running grants through CCU makes payout easier

229.

AC Cheryl: should hear from Outdoor Justice grant next month

Marion motioned to close the meeting; Emily seconded.

Susan-yes, Emily-yes, Marion-yes, Glenn-yes, Robert-yes

The meeting adjourned at 8:40 p.m.

Respectfully submitted by Michelle Hatcher on 7/23/2024 at 2:18 pm.

Tags:

- [meeting](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/meeting)
- [#Waccamaw](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/waccamaw-1)
- [#Native](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/native-2)
- [#Minutes](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/minutes-1)

