---
title: ""
date: "2024-09-27T00:00:00Z"
lastmod: "2024-09-27T00:00:00Z"
url: "https://www.waccamaw.org/single-post/may-2021-open-meeting-summary"
categories:
author: ""
source: "wix"
source_guid: ""
---

# May 2021 Open Meeting Summary

-

Michelle Hatcher
- May 21, 2021
- 5 min read

Tribal Open Meeting Summary 5/7/2021  held via Zoom

1.

CM’s Marion, Susan, Marie, Glenn, Alan, Robert, and CoC Dalton present. VC Cheryl, 2C John, 2C Phil, and Filekeeper Starla present. Deborah J and Dr. Wendy Trott also present.

2.

Financial Report (as of 5/7/2021, 3:50am)

  1.

General Fund: $17,872.27

  2.

Building Fund: $4,598.29

  3.

Cemetery Fund: $1560.96

    1.

2C John: they’ve had other donations

3.

Old Business

  1.

Resolution JT-08-07-2020-001: 2nd Reading

    1.

Updated with VC Cheryl’s suggestions from last month

    2.

2C John: make change: Integrity of the Tribal Government (to include Chiefs when they run for office)

      1.

Dalton, 2C Phil, Robert, Glenn: sounds reasonable

      2.

Dalton: cover all tribal government, elected or appointed

      3.

VC Cheryl: it should cover all 3 branches

      4.

Glenn motioned to change Tribal Council in the title to Tribal Government; Robert seconded

        1.

Marion-yes, Susan-yes, Marie-yes, Glenn-yes, Alan-yes, Robert-yes, Dalton-yes

        2.

Susan: should repeal the first one because the name changed and give it a new name; Robert seconded

        3.

Marion-yes, Susan-yes, Marie-yes, Glenn-yes, Alan-yes, Robert-yes, Dalton-yes

        4.

New resolution: JT-05-07-2021-001: Tribal Government Candidate Requirements

        5.

Glenn motioned to accept new resolution; Marie seconded

        6.

Marion-yes, Susan-yes, Marie-yes, Glenn-yes, Alan-yes, Robert-yes, Dalton-yes

        7.

2C John: should it be formally given to the Elders so they don’t feel left out?

        8.

Dalton: will send it to them

  2.

Online Votes

    1.

Online Votes

      1.

April Meeting Summary

        1.

Marion-yes, Susan-abstain, Marie-yes, Glenn-yes, Alan-abstain, Robert-yes, Dalton-yes

4.

New Business

  1.

Receipts

    1.

Paid by Glenn & sent by email: $391.63

      1.

Susan motioned to accept; Robert seconded

        1.

Marion-yes, Susan-yes, Marie-yes, Glenn-yes, Alan-yes, Robert-yes, Dalton-yes

        2.

Add to 4/2/2021 total, write one check, send out tonight

  2.

Committee Reports

    1.

Buildings & Grounds: Glenn

      1.

Grass is looking good

      2.

Wire for pump station hooked up with Marion’s help

      3.

Nothing from GSW&SA

    2.

Arts & Crafts: 2C Phil

      1.

Alan: how do we add  artists?

        1.

2C Phil: same question; I have no access to do it

      2.

2C Phil: Jerri H requested an application a long time ago, but says she didn’t get it

        1.

Susan: email it to her a long time ago

        2.

Emailed 6/18/2018 with no response

        3.

Dalton: send it again

        4.

2C Phil: we’ve use her art in Pauwaus and in exhibits

        5.

We don’t have people leading the arts commission

        6.

2C John: are you saying you want off the arts committee?

        7.

Alan: think he wants paperwork more accessible

        8.

2C John: seems like she would get in touch with the person who send the application

        9.

Glenn: the same thing happens when asking people to send photos in for membership

        10.

2C John: if she had her paperwork done, came to meeting 3 times, would she have certification?

        11.

Susan: we’d have to look at items and then certify

        12.

Chief Hatcher: as long as they are a member, they make Native art

        13.

Can’t call it Waccamaw art without certification

        14.

VC Cheryl: Indian Arts & Crafts Act is a truth in advertising act

        15.

2C Phil: motion to let Council certify artists until we have enough people on the arts committee

        16.

Dalton: as of your last recollection, Susan, who is on the committee now?

        17.

Susan: me, Robert, Phil, Rick

        18.

Susan motioned to allow the arts committee be Susan, 2C Phil, and Robert; Glenn seconded

        19.

Marion-yes, Susan-yes, Marie-yes, Glenn-yes, Alan-yes, Robert-yes, Dalton-yes

        20.

Dalton: get together to determine a chair

        21.

2C Phil: motion to make Susan the chair; Robert seconded

        22.

Marion-yes, Susan-yes, Marie-yes, Glenn-yes, Alan-yes, Robert-yes, Dalton-yes

        23.

2C John: so people send pictures or the items?

        24.

Susan: pictures with the application

        25.

2C John: then set up a time for them to bring items

        26.

Susan: most times, pictures were okay

        27.

Chief Hatcher: first set up a standard for items

        28.

Example: dreamcatcher should have 7 rings

        29.

Susan: most people who are certified now, we’ve seen their items at Pauwaus

        30.

Some people, we’ll need to see their items because we haven’t seen their work before

    3.

Pauwau

      1.

We didn’t have a meeting in April; no quorum

      2.

Contacting Demonstrators & Vendors

      3.

Fundraisers

      4.

Susan: sending school superintendents a letter to judge interest

    4.

Drum: Glenn

      1.

Went over things with Andy 2 weeks ago

      2.

Meeting tomorrow at his place at 4pm

      3.

Might be a good School Day drum

      4.

Chief Hatcher: learn etiquette on the drum with all traditions involved

        1.

Open, close, control

    5.

Campground: Glenn

      1.

Covered under Buildings & Grounds

    6.

Files: Starla

      1.

Would like to move the meeting to the 4th Saturday (5/22) at 7pm

        1.

Starla-yes, Marion-yes, Glenn-yes, Michelle-yes, Dalton-yes, Marie-yes, VC Cheryl-yes

        2.

Dalton will change the Zoom link

    7.

Grants: Michelle

      1.

SCAC: our grant will cover the documentary, Pauwau, or some combination of the two

        1.

Michelle: sent Ms. Green’s response to Council and Chiefs

        2.

Chief: think we’ve done enough to cover it

  3.

Carol Ann: Dalton read her message to Council

    1.

Dalton: was thinking of having her help the files committee with calls

      1.

Glenn: I think phone calls would be a better option for her

      2.

Susan: as far as calls, let her do them, keep a running total & report each month

        1.

Glenn: agree 100%

        2.

VC Cheryl: she should be at the Files Committee meeting too

    2.

Susan: when does her card expire?

      1.

Glenn: 8 years ago

        1.

Susan: she’s probably in the inactive stack now

        2.

VC Cheryl: her card expired in 2020

    3.

Chief Hatcher: former CoC Rick worked out a deal with her & Council should follow through with it

  4.

Glenn: Deborah Johnson, speak on behalf of what you can do with the newsletter

    1.

Deborah J: getting templates, information, etc

      1.

Shouldn’t be an issue

      2.

Deborah: need tidbits & schedule

        1.

Glenn: final approval from Council before sending

        2.

VC Cheryl: have sections with updates, events, letters, etc…

        3.

Will send you information

    2.

Glenn: motion to put Deborah J in charge of doing newsletter; Robert seconded

      1.

Marion-yes, Susan-yes, Marie-yes, Glenn-yes, Alan-yes, Robert-yes, Dalton-yes

  5.

Dalton: back to Carol Ann

    1.

Chief Hatcher: give her 25 names/ month

      1.

VC Cheryl: give her 10/ week

        1.

Chief Hatcher 10/week is good, just don’t want it to be overwhelming

    2.

Dalton: would like to change expiration dates on IDs to 1-2 years because it leads to people having to pay a large sum when their card expires

      1.

Glenn: what was the purpose of the 7 years?

        1.

Dalton: expiration date on driver’s license was 7 at the time

  6.

Marion: how do I get DJ’s application in? He’s already honorary

    1.

Chief Hatcher: first, Council has to open the roll book

      1.

Marion has to be listed as his sponsor

      2.

Send the application to Michelle (check for complete items), then Susan, then to Chief

  7.

VC Cheryl

    1.

Museum was a success with Dr Dillian & Clary

      1.

Students sent a 14-page letter; it was meaningful for them

      2.

Would be nice to do a thank-you card and Starbucks gift cards

        1.

Chief Hatcher: dinner at the tribal grounds & give certificates

        2.

VC Cheryl: 3 professors & Dr Ellis helped

        3.

Chief Hatcher: think COuncil should authorize $200 for a dinner; Marie seconded

        4.

Marion-yes, Susan-yes, Marie-yes, Glenn-yes, Alan-yes, Robert-yes, Dalton-yes

    2.

Conservationists of Color doing Zoom meetings; contact VC Cheryl to participate

    3.

Tribal Government programs & Grant Writing Training available

    4.

PFAS Contamination Commission: meet next week with Dept of Defense

      1.

Contamination on military bases

  8.

2C John

    1.

To Chief Hatcher: what are your intentions of your position for next year?

      1.

Chief Hatcher: unsure; don’t want to run, but don’t want things to fall apart

        1.

2C John: think if you don’t want to run, announce it early enough for candidates to prepare

        2.

Make a referendum to make you Chief of State

        3.

Chief Hatcher: how would it work if I were Chief of State, VC Cheryl became Chief, and I thought she was messing up?

        4.

2C John: have to work it out

        5.

VC Cheryl: I understand clout is what it takes to get things done in the state

        6.

Have to be able to get your foot in the door

        7.

Chief Hatcher: we work a few people to death

        8.

We’ve come a long way in this state; I almost saw it destroyed

        9.

2C John: on restricting the Chief to people traced to the Dimery settlement

        10.

I think that needs to change in the constitution

        11.

VC Cheryl: I disagree; it led us to the Fab 4 issue (though it may not happen again) & we said were descendants from that settlement

        12.

Susan: if you change it, you may as well call us a social club

        13.

Chief Hatcher: BIA may agree with you & there are a lot of non-core who do work

        14.

VC Cheryl: what is a tribe? Would you let a Catawba come be Chief? Don’t think you want to open that door

        15.

2C John: it doesn’t change your character

  9.

Chief Hatcher

    1.

If you can’t get volunteers for work day, let’s hire some

      1.

Glenn: already talked to some CCU students

Marie motioned to close the meeting; Robert seconded.

Meeting adjourned at 9:41 pm.

Respectfully submitted by Michelle Hatcher on 5/21/2021 at 2:22 am.

Tags:

- [meeting](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/meeting)
- [minutes](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/minutes)
- [community](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/community)

