---
title: ""
date: "2024-09-29T00:00:00Z"
lastmod: "2024-09-29T00:00:00Z"
url: "https://www.waccamaw.org/single-post/2016/08/10/june-2010-open-meeting-summary-06042010"
categories:
author: ""
source: "wix"
source_guid: ""
---

# June 2010 Open Meeting Summary 06042010

-

Doug Hatcher
- Jun 5, 2016
- 3 min read

Tribal Open Meeting Summary 6/4/2010 held at the Tribal Office in Aynor

1.

Opened at 6:32 with CoC Scott and CM’s Neal, Richia, Dalton, and Homer present

2.

CoC to Council: Minutes are to just to see if they are ok from last month- not to change them in their current state

3.

April Minutes Read

4.

Dalton motioned to accept; Homer seconded

5.

Dalton-yes, Richia-yes, Neal-yes, Homer-yes, Scott-yes (passed by majority)

6.

Financial Report: Iris

7.

$6837.86

8.

5 months of expenses to come out

9.

Committee Reports

10.

Building & Grounds: Neal

11.

Cable at entrance: someone has cut them in half

12.

Iris: needs to be reported

13.

List of things to fix:

14.

Sewer gas

15.

Donnie- Washer/ dryer; Buster to run wire for something, ramp

16.

Truck

17.

Paint

18.

Planted more on nature trail

19.

Bathroom door shut

20.

PW

21.

Reminder: 6/16 meeting at Shoney’s

22.

Arts & Crafts: Brian

23.

7/16- tribal office

24.

7/14- feather class 3pm

25.

6/26- A&C display

26.

6/26- food for solstice- Susan & Jan

27.

Reason doing things around solstice- a lot of people have to get paperwork done

28.

MaryEllen coming out

29.

Scott- when asked, he has to take it before Council

30.

She can come out any time she wants

31.

Brian: as far as he knows, must have 3 pieces of art and trying to get people caught up

32.

Contemporary- do what you want, just can’t claim it as traditional

33.

All questions/ comments should be directed to Brian

34.

Richia: wants input on having solstice and display the same day

35.

Iris: solstice & family gathering

36.

Brian: solstice isn’t all day; it’s at particular times

37.

Not advertising to the general public; will rent a club spot and do it

38.

Susan: simple foods- hot dogs, BBQ, cole slaw

39.

Up to $200

40.

Neal motioned; Richia seconded

41.

Neal-yes, Richia-yes, Homer-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes (passed by majority)

42.

Buster: suggested policy by set for giving up to $200 for all family gatherings & solstices

43.

Susan: please donate paper plates, forks, napkins

44.

Brian: what’s the difference between yard sale and Arts & crafts display on solstice?

45.

Iris: A&C display isn’t held on a family gathering

46.

Brian: you have to build a relationship with the town of Aynor

47.

Dalton: if you have it at the family gathering, every 2-3 people are going to think that food is for them. We don’t have the money to feed them.

48.

Iris: Family gathering isn’t about making money, it’s about companionship.

49.

Buster: day after family gathering, you could advertise and sell

50.

Grants: Michelle

51.

Nothing to apply for yet

52.

Online Votes

53.

Weed eater $193

54.

Account with Rabon’s- they will send bill

55.

Amendment SB-09-12-2008-01 Establishing Committees received a clarification to a sentence

56.

Dalton motioned; Homer seconded

57.

Dalton-yes, Richia-yes, Neal-yes, Homer-yes, Scott-yes

58.

Fill Dirt- $1000- needs approval

59.

Russell Lloyd (sp?)

60.

Can get free dirt, but can’t move it

61.

Homer motioned; Neal seconded

62.

Dalton-yes, Richia-yes, Scott-yes, Neal-yes, Homer-yes

63.

Trees by trailer- get rid of trees, may net us some dirt

64.

Dalton-yes, Richia-yes, Scott-yes, Neal-yes, Homer-yes

65.

Chief Hatcher

66.

Emails to Congressman Brown for federal recognition; hardcopy letter better

67.

Business friends doing the same

68.

Congressman will do it if Senator or Congressman sign off on it

69.

Please get friends to do the same; ask Brown to cosign WIP

70.

Old van for storage- Council issue; we do have the title

71.

Elder Jerry- health improved and would like to come back from LoA to Elder Council

72.

CoC Scott asked Council for opinions

73.

Dalton: he asked for LoA, says he’s better

74.

Dalton motioned; Homer seconded

75.

Dalton-yes, Richia-yes, Homer-yes, Scott-yes, Neal-abstain (passed by quorum)

76.

Complaints from external and internal entities concerning firekeepers

77.

Suggestion: when you’re asked to come to an event, let them know what you expect upfront

78.

WIP doesn’t have an official firekeeper; we have someone sanctioned by Earl Manyskins

79.

Council to discuss

80.

Membership files can’t go to everyone in the tribe

81.

Until signed, files are an external issue

82.

Membership files

83.

Marlene A Miller

84.

Homer-yes, Neal-yes, Richia-yes, Dalton- yes, Scott-yes (passed by majority)



Homer motioned for the meeting to end; Neal seconded.



Meeting adjourned 7:50 pm.



Respectfully submitted by Michelle Hatcher on 6/17/10 at 2:04pm.





[#meeting](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/hashtags/meeting) [#minutes](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/hashtags/minutes)

