---
title: ""
date: "2024-09-29T00:00:00Z"
lastmod: "2024-09-29T00:00:00Z"
url: "https://www.waccamaw.org/single-post/july-2021-open-meeting-summary"
categories:
author: ""
source: "wix"
source_guid: ""
---

# July 2021 Open Meeting Summary

-

Michelle Hatcher
- Jul 22, 2021
- 4 min read

Tribal Open Meeting Summary 7/9/2021  held at the tribal office

1.

CM’s Susan, Marion,  Glenn, and CoC Dalton present. CM Marie and 2C John participated via Zoom. VC Cheryl, 2C Alan,  and Filekeeper Starla present.

2.

Financial Report (as of 7/9/2021, 12:58am on the CNB site)

  1.

General Fund: $16,124.69

  2.

Building Fund: $4475.81

  3.

Cemetery Fund: $288.00 (CNB) + $1560.96

3.

Old Business

  1.

Online Votes

    1.

6/9 Up to $500 for accommodations to meet Mr. Land concerning federal recognition research

      1.

Susan-abstain, Marion-yes, Dalton-yes, Glenn-yes, Marie-yes

    2.

6/27 Approve June meeting summary with change to cemetery fund (CNB + pre-CNB)

      1.

Susan-yes, Alan-yes, Marion-abstain, Glenn-yes, Marie-yes, Dalton-yes

4.

New Business

  1.

Receipts

    1.

Stamps for 2C Alan: $13.08

      1.

Susan-yes, Marion-yes, Glenn-yes, Marie-yes, Dalton-yes

      2.

Check 819: General Fund

    2.

Lawn Mower Blades and belts

      1.

Susan-yes, Marion-abstain, Glenn-yes, Marie-yes, Dalton-yes

        1.

Paid by B&G debit card

    3.

Fuel

      1.

Wait for accurate total

  2.

Chief Hatcher

    1.

Terrence Lily Littlewater gave presentation

      1.

Feasibility of building a campground on the grounds

      2.

Summarized for Tribal Council on the handout

      3.

Moved to a mobile lifestyle; converted a bus into a home

      4.

VC Cheryl: Brian E wanted camping with cultural items

        1.

2C John: bathhouse and different ordinances to follow

        2.

Liability Insurance and dumpster required

        3.

Would need a manager on-site

      5.

Possible to have vendors or a farmer’s market on the weekends

      6.

Chief Hatcher: could charge $30/ night

        1.

Ms. Littlewater: or $25 for those not using electricity

      7.

Glenn C: crunching numbers for campground with 20 sites

        1.

Feasible, but looks like $70k

      8.

2C John: would have to be rezoned

        1.

Size of the sites and emergency vehicle accessible

    2.

Brad Land & Matthew Land

      1.

Researching area; want to assist with federal recognition

      2.

Got history from 1501-1725, late 1757

        1.

Different calendars (English & French/Spanish)

        2.

Can see a line from the Dimery settlement to 1924 & Dimery school

        3.

Causey Dimery murder trial of 1921

        4.

There was a concerted effort to push Native & people of color away from their land

        5.

2C John: Has anyone researched Natives from England, France, Spain?

        6.

Brad L: yes; gotten into French history

        7.

Chief Hatcher: criteria E in the CFR- looking for first historic time

        8.

Appears to be the issue right now

        9.

Brad L: working with British archives & getting record digitized

        10.

Have seen anglicized versions of names

        11.

Chief Hatcher: will it help us meet criteria E?

        12.

Brad L: working with Dr. James Merrill who did one for Catawba

        13.

Chief Hatcher: I need historian credentials; think criteria E is the problem

        14.

Brad L: don’t think it will be a problem at all

        15.

Brad L: Larry Ivers: The Torrent of Indians

        16.

History from Tuscarora and Yamasee wars

        17.

VC Cheryl: HH Woodward

        18.

Evidence to document trade in 1750’s on Waccamaw & Black Rivers

        19.

Brad L: Post office in this area: Joppa (spelling ?) may be linked to us

  3.

Newsletter Update

    1.

Dalton read Debra J’s email to Tribal Council

  4.

Committee Reports

    1.

Buildings & Grounds: Glenn

      1.

GSWSA marked utility lines

      2.

Myrtle Beach Cultural Festival 7/10

    2.

Arts & Crafts: Susan

      1.

One application for certified artist (Jerri H)

        1.

Susan-yes, Marion-yes, Glenn-yes, Marie-yes, Dalton-yes

      2.

Presented idea for Council chokers: yellow over black over red

    3.

Pauwau: Dalton

      1.

Glenn C: heard from Ms. Nikki (Cherokee frybread vendor)

      2.

Flyers ready

      3.

Trifolds need a quick change

      4.

Fundraiser: through Andy’s pizza in Aynor

      5.

PW Budget ready for Council approval

        1.

Susan-yes, Marion-yes, Glenn-yes, Marie-abstain, Dalton-yes

        2.

Marie: waiting on link in Drive to budget handout (was sent during meeting)

    4.

Drum: Glenn

      1.

Playing at Chapin Park ar 2:05pm, 7/10

        1.

Myrtle Beach Cultural Festival open from 2pm-11pm

        2.

Wear regalia if you can

      2.

No new practices yet

    5.

Files

      1.

Starla C: bank donated a 5-drawer filing cabinet

      2.

Susan: suggest letting inactive members pay a one-time fee of $200 to bring them current on membership fees

        1.

Give them until 9/1/2021 to do it

        2.

Designator behind their ID# to keep track of disbursements after federal recognition

        3.

Chief Hatcher: put the proposal in writing

        4.

Susan: will do it

        5.

Next meeting 7/17 at 7pm at the office of via Zoom

  5.

2C Alan: state museum is looking to doing something featuring tribes throughout SC

  6.

2C John: meet at Chapin Park at 1:45pm

    1.

Bring Save the Date cards for Pauwau

    2.

Should be recycling cans, paper, etc…

      1.

VC Cheryl: SWA would probably bring out bins to do it

  7.

VC Cheryl

    1.

Clemson invited state tribal leaders to the conservation center to assist with Cooper River Canoe preservation

      1.

It brought tribal leaders together to connect

      2.

Preserve the land, reacquire other land, protect water

    2.

State Museum: Amy & Joann: taskforce at 9 on Wednesday

      1.

Dr. Rich can send Zoom link to help educate people

  8.

CoC Dalton

    1.

Thinking about a way for non-core members to have their descendants be members

      1.

Track all members the same, except with the ability to be Chief or Vice Chief

      2.

Tribal Council to consider letting children of non-core members to be members

  9.

Chief Hatcher

    1.

Have been asked to take over the Indian Development Council & help get money for education

    2.

On canoe preservation: don’t want the Doctors to think they own the artifacts

      1.

VC Cheryl: the museum wouldn’t let them even look at the remains in Charleston with Dr. Rich

        1.

They were told to make an appointment to discuss it

    3.

State museum: overall plan is to display each state tribe

      1.

Make sure the information they put in there is accurate

      2.

Don’t think state groups or special interest groups should be included in the display

        1.

Only need a couple of Native Americans in the group to be declared a state group

    4.

This tribe is helping move Native issues forward in the state

  10.

Starla C: trying to sell merchandise (T-shirts, cups, koozies, etc…)

    1.

There is a post with pictures and pricing on the tribal website

      1.

Receipt for shipping: $15.50

        1.

Susan-yes, Marion-yes, Glenn-yes, Marie-yes, Dalton-yes

        2.

Check 818 General Fund

  11.

2C John

    1.

Resolution: JT-05-07-2021-00: Tribal Government Candidate Requirements: 1st Reading

Susan motioned to close the meeting; Marie seconded.

Meeting adjourned at 9:28 pm.

Respectfully submitted by Michelle Hatcher on 7/22/2021 at 12:36 am.

Tags:

- [meeting](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/meeting)
- [minutes](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/minutes)

