---
title: ""
date: "2024-09-27T00:00:00Z"
lastmod: "2024-09-27T00:00:00Z"
url: "https://www.waccamaw.org/single-post/2016/08/10/july-2010-open-meeting-summary-07092010"
categories:
author: ""
source: "wix"
source_guid: ""
---

# July 2010 Open Meeting Summary 07092010

-

Doug Hatcher
- Jun 6, 2016
- 4 min read

Tribal Open Meeting Summary 7/9/2010 held at the Tribal Office in Aynor

1.

Opened at 6:30pm with CoC Scott and CM’s Dalton, Neal, Robert, and Homer present. Richia entered halfway through the A&C report.

2.

CoC to all: Talking stick is here for a purpose. To talk, you must be given the talking stick.

3.

June Minutes read

4.

5a (i) - Cable is bending (Donnie explained later). Needs to be replaced

5.

3- should be May minutes (not April; was copied from template)

6.

Neal motioned to accept the minutes with  changes; Robert seconded

7.

Dalton-yes, Neal-yes, Robert-yes, Homer-yes, Scott-yes

8.

5yes: 0no: 2absent: 0abstain (passed by majority)

9.

Financial Report- Scott via 2nd Chief Iris’ email

10.

Approximate funds: $4510.76

11.

Neal: fuel place says okay up to $100

12.

Committee Reports

13.

Building & Grounds: Neal

14.

Donnie keeping things mowed

15.

Riding mower needs fixed

16.

Arts & Crafts: Brian

17.

Wed 3pm: 2nd  Chief Susan : tribal member feather class

18.

Feels like it’s Council’s job to find out who needs them

19.

Fri 3pm Meeting: Brian

20.

Not where he wants the committee to be yet

21.

Would like to start an account for the Arts & Crafts Committee

22.

Dalton: Mr. Moore and vending building on the grounds

23.

Grounds isn’t ideal, but a website is

24.

Brian: original plan was to put up a shop

25.

Homer: who would run it?

26.

Brian: Brian would run it

27.

Homer: feathers: 2nd  Chief Iris said they would get a feather when they signed the roll book

28.

2nd Chief Susan : they shouldn’t get a card till they sign the roll book

29.

Deborah Creech: have them available at the pauwau when people sign the book

30.

Brian: going to have to have money to buy feathers

31.

Chief Hatcher: ID card holds privilege. I wouldn’t give them either till the book is signed

32.

2nd Chief Susan : Since we’re playing catch-up, make a feather, for everyone who has signed the book

33.

Homer: how many different feathers do we have at the moment?

34.

2nd Chief Susan: government, tribal member, merit, and veteran

35.

Chief Hatcher: suggestion for motion: tab with part of notary seal and their signature

36.

2nd Chief Susan: sticker has to be thin

37.

Motion to allow Buster & Susan to work it out

38.

Neal motioned, Homer seconded

39.

Dalton-yes, Neal-yes, Richia-yes, Robert-yes, Homer-yes, Scott-yes

40.

6 yes: 0no: 1absent: 0abstain (passed by majority)

41.

PauWau: Scott & 2nd Chief Susan

42.

Meeting 7/28 Shoney’s 7pm

43.

Grants: Michelle

44.

Nothing new to report, but time to start to looking at new opportunities

45.

2nd Chief Iris’ email via Scott

46.

Resolution Notebook to be maintained by Tribal Secretary

47.

Dalton motioned; Homer seconded

48.

Dalton-yes, Neal-yes, Richia-yes, Robert-yes, Homer-yes, Scott-yes

49.

6yes: 0no: 1absent: 0abstain (passed by majority)

50.

Two-drawer file cabinet to used at home by Tribal Secretary to file tribal records

51.

Neal motioned, Robert seconded

52.

Dalton-yes, Neal-yes, Richia-yes, Robert-yes, Homer-yes, Scott-yes

53.

6yes: 0no: 1absent: 0abstain (passed by majority)

54.

2nd Chief Iris to assume the Treasurer Duties (put Reba on LoA)

55.

Dalton motioned, Homer seconded

56.

Dalton-yes, Neal-yes, Richia-yes, Robert-yes, Homer-yes, Scott-yes

57.

6yes: 0no: 1absent: 0abstain (passed by majority)

58.

Mark Ammons & T-Card extension

59.

Buster proposed we don’t issue T-cards

60.

Send letter first, attach to roll book, then send ID card

61.

Need 2nd Chief Iris’ input

62.

Reaffirm Online Votes

63.

Electric line

64.

Robert-yes, Homer-yes, Neal-yes, Dalton-yes, Richia-yes, Scott-yes (Jeanie-yes)

65.

Seed, fertilizer, weed killer

66.

Robert-yes, Richia-yes, Neal-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes, Homer-yes (Jeanie did not vote)

67.

Lending out the drill

68.

Homer-yes, Scott-yes, Dalton-yes, Neal-yes

69.

Firekeeper

70.

Dalton- doesn’t believe we should tell people who to believe in

71.

“this guy, yes” or “this guy, no”

72.

Shouldn’t be a Council decision

73.

Scott: in the past, John went to Earl, got trained, came back as the tribal firekeeper

74.

Homer: needs to be officially recognized for firekeeper. Not believing in Robert, but in the Native American way

75.

Buster: accept, not appoint; perhaps bad wording

76.

Homer: still needs to be an official firekeeper

77.

Dalton: fine with accept; not with appoint

78.

Richia: chosen to do certain things; can’t be voted into that position

79.

Brian: y’all have to officially give the title to Robert “Waccamaw Tribal Firekeeper”

80.

Neal motioned

81.

Scott: looks like a play on words; using an analogy- using “Waccamaw” on Arts & Crafts certifications, requires certain criteria

82.

Neal motioned, Homer seconded- Waccamaw Tribal Firekeeper to be Robert

83.

Dalton-yes, Neal-yes, Richia-yes, Robert-abstain, Homer-yes, Scott-yes

84.

5yes: 0no: 1absent: 1abstain (passed by majority)

85.

Up to Robert to apprentice someone

86.

Chief Hatcher

87.

May have to reconsider Wed training because of Susan’s surgery

88.

Trying to get Henry Brown to sign the bill; keep sending letters

89.

TV documentary- Linda, Dan (Brian to take)- let Buster know when ready to tape

90.

Letters to judge (change of venue granted)

91.

Vice Chief Frank Pie’s funeral yesterday

92.

Alabama meeting about state recognition- trying to do away with it; saying that only the federal government can do it

93.

No update yet

94.

Pauwau in Clemmons 7/10 and Nottoway Pauwau 7/24

95.

Scott & Donnie: Washer/ Dryer has to be stackable

96.

Work on for next month

Dalton motioned for the meeting to end; Scott seconded.

Meeting adjourned 8:50 pm.

Respectfully submitted by Michelle Hatcher on 8/2/10 at 12:31pm.

[#minutes](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/hashtags/minutes) [#meeting](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/hashtags/meeting)

