---
title: ""
date: "2024-09-28T00:00:00Z"
lastmod: "2024-09-28T00:00:00Z"
url: "https://www.waccamaw.org/single-post/2017/07/28/july-2017-open-meeting-summary"
categories:
author: ""
source: "wix"
source_guid: ""
---

# July 2017 Open Meeting Summary

-

Doug Hatcher
- Jul 28, 2017
- 4 min read

Tribal Open Meeting Summary 7/14/2017 held at the Tribal Office in Aynor, SC

1.

CM’s John, Mark, Dalton, and Susan present. CM Dalton served as ACoC for Rick.

2.

June minutes read

3.

John motioned to accept; Mark seconded

4.

Susan-abstain, John-yes, Mark-yes, Dalton-yes

5.

Financial Report

6.

General Fund: $9143.49

7.

Building Fund: $1286.27

8.

Cemetery Fund: $531.26

9.

Online Votes

10.

6/3 PW Budget Amended to Include JAbrams’ lodging

11.

Susan-yes, John-yes, Mark-yes, Dalton-yes

12.

Old Business

13.

Vice Chief Proposal

14.

Makes 2C Cheryl Vice Chief  (senior 2C according to newest constitution)

15.

Mark-yes, John-yes, Susan-yes, Dalton-yes

16.

Check constitution for number of 2C’s allowed and fix it if not specified

17.

Open Elders’ Positions

18.

Ronnie H discussion stalled

19.

Dalton: should be done through open meeting so we can ask questions

20.

Vote is open to confirm him

21.

John: currently, elders put up a list, we vetoed their first selection, and need to figure out how to move forward

22.

What is the protocol for Ronnie?

23.

Dalton: we can table it until he shows up

24.

Mark motioned to table vote on Ronnie H; ? seconded

25.

Mark-yes, John-yes, Susan-yes, Dalton-yes

26.

John to call Ronnie and get him to come to next meeting

27.

Cemetery Encroachment

28.

Chief Hatcher: think we will have resolution: read email from attorney

29.

They are going to make sure we have 2 acres

30.

Roof Case

31.

Chief Hatcher: we will probably lose it; can’t find him & the law can’t ask for ID when they go out to serve him

32.

To go further, we would need to refile because of deadline

33.

John: could we bump up the amount if we refiled?

34.

Chief Hatcher: probably not since we asked for max

35.

Can also check with the PI

36.

New Business

37.

Chamber of Commerce (Aynor): defunct now; going to talk with Keb Johnson & Mr. Dean about setting one up for this area

38.

Elder Doug: when you pay $50, is that for the year?

39.

Dalton:yes

40.

John: how could it benefit us?

41.

Dalton: ads- the tribe could get some of that revenue

42.

We could ensure that the Pauwau is funded (or mostly funded)

43.

Michelle: in the dues price, you could include ad prices, PW costs

44.

John Turner: Attendance Proposal

45.

John read his proposal aloud

46.

Chief Hatcher: every elected person takes an oath; do you really need more than that?

47.

John: there is nothing specified in the constitution or policy letters

48.

Chief Hatcher: you’re elected by the tribe; to impose standards on a sitting Council now is wrong

49.

If you think someone’s not doing their job, have CoC send them a letter and ask them to resign

50.

Who keeps count of absences and who decides what constitutes an authorized absence?

51.

Dalton: I’d just go by the numbers; Council member names are put at the top of the minutes list; we can add Elders, 2C, etc too

52.

Susan: I’ve already missed 2 meetings, so if I miss 1 more, you’re going to can me?

53.

John: did you tell us ahead of time? Then there’s not a problem

54.

Dalton: I take issue with notice; this would require 3 readings

55.

Chief Hatcher: it imposes on the entire governing body

56.

Dalton:  Elders & Judges can force a revote & tell us it’s unconstitutional

57.

Mark: look at US Senate: they don’t even have to go the floor

58.

You can’t impose your will on volunteers

59.

John: I personally feel I wouldn’t be a part of Tribal Council without being here

60.

Chief Hatcher: should make it a requirement ahead of time when they run so they will better know some rules to follow

61.

Can’t eliminate someone just because you don’t like them

62.

Elder Dan: show them the oath

63.

Dalton: can change this from a binding proposal to guideline

64.

None of the titles are honorary titles; they are working titles

65.

Fuel Receipts

66.

$43.87 Check 582

67.

Mark-yes, John-yes, Susan-yes, Dalton-yes

68.

Committee Reports

69.

Arts & Crafts: Susan

70.

Nothing to report

71.

Grants: Michelle

72.

Waiting to hear back from SCAC

73.

Pauwau: Michelle

74.

Hog Heaven fundraiser generated $1108 profit

75.

Ads are to be sold; we can email form to you if you would like to help

76.

Looking for older Pauwau pictures for program book

77.

Nestle declined our application for water; try earlier in the year

78.

Glenn will help build benches to go around the circle during Pauwau

79.

If you can help him, let him know (or contact tribal office by phone/ Secretary by email)

80.

Looking for volunteers for Nov. for all areas; send any Pauwau member an email or call us

81.

Next meeting 8/10 @ 6pm

82.

Drum: Glenn

83.

Nothing to report

84.

Parking Lot & Shuttle: John

85.

Dissolved until there is more interest

86.

Mark: mower deck: $1170 + 1year warranty

87.

Chief Hatcher

88.

Asked who printed CNB transaction report

89.

Michelle: I did, at Council’s request

90.

Michelle does a lot: bank reports (nothing lately from bookkeeper, keeps track of resolutions)

91.

Tribal Council needs to appoint a new bookkeeper

92.

Meeting coming up with Senator Tim Scott 7/27m led by Chief Hatcher, not CMA

93.

Asked for suggestions on priorities from other tribes

94.

Ralph Oxendine: cancer & car wreck; can’t treat one issue without messing with the other

95.

Want to build a ramp to help him

96.

Would like to try concrete in short areas; idea from Don Harris

97.

Donie: it will have to be pretty thick

98.

Glenn: concretes are rated for weight

99.

Price concrete, coquina , etc for next meeting

100.

Gene Norris: having an invitation-only Pauwau this year

101.

Re: Homer: now in Hospice; talked to him on the phone

102.

Re: Bernie: he can talk, but not walk; he’s in a hospital in Augusta, GA

103.

Have to do something about files & ID cards

104.

Mark: Dori has volunteered & has been shot down

105.

Susan:will she come here?

106.

Mark: why here when others can do it from home?

107.

Susan: the files are here

108.

Bingo: Need players: starts at 6pm ($0.25 games), new program at 8

109.

Dalton: any news on Bingo?

110.

Chief: we had an offer to buy for $75k, which we don’t have

111.

Elders: the ones we haven’t seen

112.

Chief Hatcher: one didn’t respond

113.

Elder Charles is active online & at Pauwau/ School Day

114.

To Elders: have you elected a new CoE?

115.

Let us know when you have so we can change the paperwork

Mark motioned to close the meeting; Susan seconded.

Meeting adjourned 7:55 pm.

Respectfully submitted by Michelle Hatcher on 7/28/17 at 9:35 pm.

[#meeting](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/hashtags/meeting) [#minutes](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/hashtags/minutes)

