---
title: ""
date: "2024-09-27T00:00:00Z"
lastmod: "2024-09-27T00:00:00Z"
url: "https://www.waccamaw.org/single-post/2016/08/10/june-2014-open-meeting-summary-06062014"
categories:
author: ""
source: "wix"
source_guid: ""
---

# June 2014 Open Meeting Summary 06062014

-

Doug Hatcher
- Jul 19, 2016
- 4 min read

Tribal Open Meeting Summary 6/6/2014 held at the Tribal Office in Aynor, SC

1.

CoC Scott, CM’s Dalton, Homer, John, Robert, and Rick present.

2.

Presentation by Jerry Lang

3.

Funding for health project- screenings for different health issues

4.

Will help all, but focus is primarily on Native Americans

5.

May Minutes read

6.

Dalton: 6(ii)(1) should be “he” not “her”

7.

Dalton motioned to accept with change; Homer seconded

8.

Homer-yes, John-yes, Susan-abstain, Robert-yes, Rick-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

9.

Financial Report: Alan

10.

General Fund

11.

Deposits: $640.42 Debits: $800.33 Balance: $13,233.95

12.

Building Fund

13.

Deposits: $25.00 Debits: $0.00 Balance: $1050.00

14.

New Business

15.

Membership Files

16.

JT Abrams

17.

Homer-yes, John-yes, Susan-yes, Robert-yes, Rick-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

18.

Committee Reports

19.

Arts & Crafts: Susan

20.

Letter was sent to Carol Ann: came back twice; newsletter came back

21.

Changed address or not accepting mail

22.

Dalton: how many voting members are on committee now?

23.

Susan: herself, Becky S, Rick H, Robert B, Iris E

24.

Phil W, Neal R once paperwork is in

25.

Neal: would like people to bring items to open meeting to judge

26.

2nd Chief Iris: like the idea, but needs to go through A&C

27.

Susan: could make a showcase for Waccamaw art

28.

Neal: could have a Pauwau booth

29.

Susan: 3-4 put a booth up together one year

30.

Chief Hatcher: importance of paperwork: SC laws on animal parts

31.

Even if the parts are for sale, you may not be able to use it in art

32.

DNR would have to verify with A&C that you are certified to use it

33.

Johnnie F: use the old trailer for A&C

34.

2nd Chief Cheryl: keep applications here at office

35.

2nd Chief Iris: may need to start over

36.

Grants: Michelle

37.

SCAC: waiting on report

38.

Lowe’s Community Grant

39.

Buildings & Grounds: John

40.

Drain Project: Wayne T, Rick H, Alex, Neal R

41.

John to email list to Chief Hatcher

42.

Budgeted $700

43.

Actual cost: $777.67; donations: $72.67

44.

Richard T also donated

45.

Gravel: $347.75

46.

YouLoco wouldn’t come mark the lines because it was Confederate Memorial Day

47.

2nd Chief Cheryl: estimate on moving electrical outlets & make sure they are up to code

48.

Materials: $146 if using current breakers

49.

Max-up amps to RV’s at same time

50.

John T: think we need to discuss grounds, layout, vendor locations

51.

Dalton: PW, B&G, & Council should meet

52.

Chief Hatcher: have to get it done if we’re doing it this year

53.

Mark A: meet during Summer Solstice @ 1pm

54.

Lawnmower: donations for cemetery upkeep to be sent to:

55.

1716 Pelican Place Shallotte, NC 28470

56.

Pauwau: 2nd Chief Cheryl

57.

Fundraiser with Hog Heaven 6/17

58.

$15/ plate- meal & presentation

59.

Membership Updates: 1-year Review Query 6/6/2014

60.

J. Cox

61.

Susan motioned to move to full member; Homer seconded

62.

Homer-yes, John-yes, Susan-abstain, Robert-yes, Rick-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

63.

P. Davis

64.

Susan motioned to extend x 1 year; Homer seconded

65.

Homer-yes, John-yes, Susan-abstain, Robert-yes, Rick-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

66.

K. Davis

67.

Susan motioned to extend x 1 year; Homer seconded

68.

Homer-yes, John-yes, Susan-abstain, Robert-yes, Rick-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

69.

J. Siratt

70.

John motioned to move to full member; Dalton seconded

71.

Homer-yes, John-yes, Susan-abstain, Robert-yes, Rick-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

72.

Homer: not to discredit anyone: make an effort once a year to help the tribe

73.

All other names in the query now have expired cards

74.

Fuel Receipt: $65.93 Check 1035

75.

Homer motioned; John seconded

76.

Homer-yes, John-yes, Susan-abstain, Robert-yes, Rick-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

77.

2nd Chiefs

78.

2nd Chief Cheryl: Sun News article about casinos and infrastructure

79.

Both parties recognize that casinos can help with infrastructure as well as other projects

80.

CoC Scott: policy on tribal logo

81.

Read policy to those present in meeting

82.

Susan: seems like price was approximately $165 to check to see if it’s not already taken

83.

John motioned to allow Susan to look into it up to $165

84.

Dalton seconded

85.

If more, Susan should notify Council

86.

Homer-yes, John-yes, Susan-abstain, Robert-yes, Rick-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

87.

Send mail/ email with timestamp for copyright

88.

John T: we need a long Council meeting

89.

Susan: a working Council meeting

90.

Chief Hatcher

91.

Met with investors- project delayed; putting person in area to help

92.

Casinos: think good point for state is to keep it Indian-only

93.

Have to speak to other tribal leaders though

94.

Federal recognition process under review: BIA created bill asking for reasonable certainty- not Congress

95.

A lot of good changes to bill

96.

Cemetery: Ms. Sellers refused to sign order; judge signed

97.

50/50, we upkeep

98.

Sumter Band of Cheraw: meeting with them soon

99.

SB611 passed Senate; stuck in House- to be reintroduced

100.

CMA asked to withdraw it, but they can’t (not their bill)

101.

Bill on game parts next year

102.

A&C needs to require promise: no animal life for art

103.

Opinion: use all parts of animal for crafts?

104.

John T: if you’re going to use plastic parts, you may as well buy them from China

105.

A lot of resistance from Indians & only group affected by the law

106.

Law was done in spite of Indians; Legislators didn’t think first

107.

GSWS: sent Council information prior to meeting

108.

John T: don’t like having to take a lien on property

109.

Mark A: they said 20 years; email said 5

110.

Mark to forward it to Chief Hatcher

111.

Susan suggested sending out a letter requesting donations for this project

112.

Mark A: bathhouse/ hurricane shelter: Cherokee grant from FEMA

113.

Won’t need pre-authorized travel expenses- investors gave money for it

114.

Good program from Jerry Lang; take survey and help build database

115.

Yvonne Mitchell Jones asked for membership for herself, husband, and son

116.

Want to help out

117.

Need pictures & member’s agreements

118.

Sheila Hansen gave us tobacco for the solstice

119.

Neal Richard

120.

Current way that a vacated CM position is filled is unfair

121.

Chief Hatcher: I stand by it; to change it, change the constitution

122.

Elders: Steve O

123.

Met and discussed policy concerning elections

124.

Timeframe, how you submit letters of intent, etc…

125.

Rick H

126.

If you’re interested in learning how to drum, we’ll teach

John motioned to close the meeting; Rick seconded.

Meeting adjourned 8:25 pm.

Respectfully submitted by Michelle Hatcher on 7/10/14 at 11:51 pm.

[#minutes](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/hashtags/minutes) [#meeting](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/hashtags/meeting)

