---
title: ""
date: "2024-10-12T00:00:00Z"
lastmod: "2024-10-12T00:00:00Z"
url: "https://www.waccamaw.org/single-post/2016/08/10/june-2015-open-meeting-summary-06052015"
categories:
author: ""
source: "wix"
source_guid: ""
---

# June 2015 Open Meeting Summary 06052015

-

Doug Hatcher
- Jul 31, 2016
- 3 min read



Tribal Open Meeting Summary 6/5/2015 held at the Tribal Office in Aynor, SC



1.

CM’s Susan, John, Robert, Dalton, and CoC Scott present.

2.

May minutes read.

3.

6(a)(iii)(4)(a) should read: “who takes care of the one on Juno Rd”

4.

Dalton motioned to accept with change; Robert seconded

5.

John-yes, Susan-yes, Robert-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

6.

Financial Report: Chief Hatcher

7.

Council received via email before meeting

8.

General Fund: $7141.88

9.

Building Fund: $5697.60

10.

Old Business

11.

Trademark of Tribal Logo: Susan

12.

Service & Trademark: $30 each- mailed yesterday

13.

Good for 5 years, then review

14.

Wait for SoS

15.

New Business

16.

Committee Reports

17.

Arts & Crafts: Susan

18.

Meet in July

19.

Nothing from Phil or Brittany about display at USC-Lancaster

20.

Grants: Michelle

21.

Checked on Hospitality grant through MB site

22.

Didn’t find anything; contacted through email

23.

The Columbia site; however, said it was past deadline for their area

24.

Buildings & Grounds: John

25.

RV project: lack 1 meter

26.

Gave thanks to Rick H, Chris H, Terry’s Hardware

27.

Budget: overspent by $561.97

28.

Susan motioned to give John his money back; Dalton seconded

29.

Susan-yes, Robert-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

30.

Check 1041 Building Fund

31.

Donations to Building Fund (money and in-kind) on handout

32.

Cemetery Fund: $400.05

33.

Thanked Wayne T for mowing Bethel cemetery grass

34.

Fundraiser: farming crops; need manpower

35.

Pauwau: Michelle

36.

Next meeting 6/10/2015

37.

Ad forms available; need everyone to assist

38.

Hog Heaven fundraiser on 6/19

39.

Sewer Pump Project: Chief Hatcher

40.

Nothing to add

41.

Drum: John for Rick

42.

Still working on it

43.

Fishing Tournament: 5/2 with archery, picture with Chief, food, horseshoes

44.

Approx. 18 special needs children, rest were adults, 6 tribal members

45.

Constitution: Dalton

46.

Need to set date for meeting

47.

Chief Hatcher: on the changes that are ready

48.

Cut down & make it so people can fold it, stamp it, mail it back

49.

Fuel Receipts

50.

John motioned; Dalton seconded

51.

John-yes, Susan-yes, Robert-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

52.

$43.04 Check 632

53.

Chief Hatcher

54.

Introduced Jerry Lang, Dr Painter, Jerry Brown

55.

Waccamaw Band on TN land possible

56.

Dr Painter introduced Al Nichols & Shane

57.

Chief Hatcher proposed tribe join SE American Indian Council; Susan seconded

58.

John: are there mandatory meetings>

59.

Dr. Painter: not at present, maybe yearly or at events at nonintrusive times

60.

Spirit of Eagles: $10k annual grant

61.

SEAIC can help facilitate

62.

Dalton: what is the tribe’s responsibility to SEAIC?

63.

Dr. Painter: advisory, not financially

64.

Speak up if you know of a need & help if you can

65.

Dalton: you probably want a liaison then?

66.

Dr. Painter: yes, since tribe will sign up as a group

67.

John-yes, Susan-yes, Robert-yes, Dalton-yes, Scott-yes

68.

Community Health Workers being hired at $25-35k/year by medical field

69.

SC Dept. of Health provides training

70.

6/20 St George (SC): training at 9am

71.

Jerry Lang: 6/13: Muskogee New Year Ceremony: Green Corn

72.

Aynor Hoe Down Festival: September; app due 8/31

73.

Teleconference with Rep. Rice next week regarding federal recognition

74.

Resolution: JR-HH-06-01-2015-001: Awarding of Tribal Membership: 1st Reading

75.

Must be worthy of membership prior to applying

76.

Susan: question over last paragraph- application declined, but also says Council can renew membership

77.

Dalton: leaving options open is not a bad idea

78.

John: can’t this be written into constitution for all members?

79.

Dalton: it can, but at what point is enough considered  enough (citing Iris as an example)

80.

John: would like to keep documentation on grounds: constitution, amendments, policies, history, genealogy

81.

Add to New Business in July

82.

John: Solstice 6/21

83.

Can Mark A bring water slide for the children?

84.

John will bring bow & arrow & fund it

85.

Chief Hatcher: Alan & Johnnie F will cook BBQ dinner & donate it

86.

Inviting other Chiefs

87.

Go Fund Me: keep reposting

88.

Member who wants to camp on grounds: check was sent, but delays on house site

89.

New mobile app for Native business (shows you which businesses are owned by Native Americans)





Susan motioned to close the meeting; Dalton seconded.

Meeting adjourned 9:00 pm.

Respectfully submitted by Michelle Hatcher on 7/9/15 at 4:02 pm.







[#minutes](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/hashtags/minutes) [#meeting](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/hashtags/meeting)

