---
title: ""
date: "2024-09-29T00:00:00Z"
lastmod: "2024-09-29T00:00:00Z"
url: "https://www.waccamaw.org/single-post/february-2024-open-meeting-summary"
categories:
author: ""
source: "wix"
source_guid: ""
---

# February 2024 Open Meeting Summary

-

Michelle Hatcher
- Feb 19, 2024
- 7 min read

Updated: Feb 26, 2024

Tribal Open Meeting Summary 2/2/2024  held at the tribal office and via Zoom

1.

CM’s Marion, Susan, Emily, Glenn, and CoC Dalton were present. CM’s Robert and Chris arrived late. Elders Charles H and Larry J were present. Vice Chief Cheryl, 2C Alan, and 2C John were present.

2.

Members Nancy J, Clayton G, Ronnie H, Carol L, Carolyn D, Randy W, Lisa L, Starla C, Rick H, and Andy W were present.

3.

Financial Report (as of 2/1/2024 at 11:11 am)

4.

General Fund: $42,403.13

5.

Building Fund: $1906.61

6.

Cemetery Fund: $407.00

7.

Old Business

8.

Online Votes

9.

12/29 Approve December open meeting summary

10.

Emily-yes, Susan-abstain, Glenn-yes, Marion-yes, Dalton-yes, 2C Alan (Susan)-yes

11.

1/11 Cancel the January 2024 open meeting due to weather advisory

12.

Emily-yes, Susan-yes, Glenn-yes, Marion-yes, Dalton-yes

13.

Steve Jett: Benalign

14.

Benefits to retrain employees; the app is available through the Play and Apple Store

15.

[https://www.benalignhub.com/](https://www.benalignhub.com/)

16.

It only costs money if you buy a product

17.

Telemedicine: 24/7 access: $7.95/ month

18.

Rx benefit & card: $0 copay for generics: $12/ month

19.

Outpatient labs & medical imaging services

20.

Accident Insurance

21.

Hospital expenses

22.

Critical illness

23.

Sick pay

24.

Dental/ vision plan

25.

Term life

26.

Bill negotiation

27.

Credit planner: $5/ month

28.

Pet insurance

29.

Renters Insurance

30.

Device protection: $5/ month for up to 18 devices

31.

CoC Dalton: what would be the charge to the tribe?

32.

Steve J: no cost for using the app, only if you want to sponsor telemedicine and some items

33.

2C John: if you have Medicare, will this come on top of Medicare?

34.

Steve J: it can, especially during the donut hole period

35.

If you use telemed, will you get to an actual doctor?

36.

Steve J: concierge first, then a doctor

37.

You can use that doctor every time if you want

38.

CoC Dalton: is this available to the public or does the tribe have to join?

39.

Steve J: tribe would sponsor it and then we’d send a member an application

40.

Does it cover weight loss surgery?

41.

Steve J: no, because there’s no insurance component

42.

There might be a discount in the hospital section

43.

Glenn: is there a charge for the tribe to sponsor?

44.

Steve J: no, but members could get benefits at under $20/ month

45.

CoC Dalton: we will discuss it and get with you; it sounds like a good plan

46.

2C John: if the tribe were to sign up, can individual members purchase what they want?

47.

Steve J: yes, absolutely, correct

48.

Glenn: is there a minimum for the tribe to get access?

49.

Steve J: no

50.

CoC Dalton: do you keep personal data or do you sell it?

51.

Steve J: we don’t sell data

52.

When you sign up for a product, it goes directly to the companies

53.

New Business

54.

2C John: have we looked into an interest-bearing account?

55.

Susan: no

56.

VC Cheryl: Mr. Mancuso could talk to the Chief to improve our finances

57.

Susan: have him here for a meeting

58.

VC Cheryl: him and Rick Elliott; start from there

59.

Receipts

60.

AC service: $40 paid by Glenn: Check 1073: B&G Fund

61.

Suggest we pump water from under the office to the sewer

62.

Emily-yes, Susan-yes, Glenn-yes, Marion-yes, Robert-yes, Dalton-yes

63.

Committee Reports

64.

Buildings & Grounds: Glenn

65.

Water isn’t fixed; it’s been too wet to work on

66.

AC: had a man come fix it; he found a loose wire and recommended a sump pump

67.

Marion: can we level out the ground or do we need 2 pumps?

68.

Glenn: he said it was rusted under there & he’d put in for $1000 (labor)

69.

Unit is 3-ton and approx. $1800

70.

Marion: there’s no need to put more money into this one if we go to the mini-split; think we’d need 2 heads

71.

Glenn: yes, because of the distance

72.

Glenn: we’d buy the unit directly and he’d charge us to install

73.

Marion: can you bring back figures?

74.

Glenn: yes

75.

CoC Dalton: water under the building is a bad idea; think we should get the sump pump

76.

Glenn: I’ll get figures on it

77.

Arts & Crafts: Susan

78.

I want to start classes again, but no one shows up

79.

CoC Dalton: I suggest doing it via Zoom or recording it

80.

Create a YouTube channel

81.

Susan: they’d have to buy their own supplies

82.

Have a maximum number of students for one-on-one classes

83.

2C John: have them prepay with no refunds allowed

84.

Dr. Dillian: would you be willing to do something that could link to the exhibit?

85.

Susan: I see other tribes doing things; what are we doing wrong?

86.

VC Cheryl: figure out what people are interested in

87.

Center around fire ceremonies

88.

Marion: with fire ceremonies, the Chief tries to make it educational

89.

Plan to have A&C for a couple of hours after lunch on fire ceremony days

90.

Grants

91.

VC Cheryl: Catalyst Grant: building on something

92.

Due in April; $25k (same as last year)

93.

It’s used for culture, environmental/ land issues, education, networking

94.

Then look at conservation funds

95.

We could become stewards of the land

96.

Met with Chief Creel- they are getting land donated to them

97.

From HUD for an assisted living facility

98.

Have to be smart about networking

99.

Forestry & Wildlife services through Clemson: Coastal project

100.

$500k max

101.

Identify our historical lands that are wetlands or in watersheds of the Pee Dee River

102.

Protect lands to avoid more flooding

103.

I found a 1789 survey that said Chief John’s land

104.

Upper Dog Bluff and a threatened area that connects us to the Marion side of the Pee Dee River

105.

Partnering with Indigenous East from tribes from MD to LA

106.

Michelle: The SCAC Grant deadline is 4/16/2024 this year

107.

Dr. Dillian: the 2 grants for the exhibit project will end soon

108.

Pauwau

109.

Chairperson for 2024: Michelle

110.

Looking for pictures of our older members

111.

Start selling ads/ memorial pages for the program book

112.

Working on demonstrators to finalize the flyer earlier

113.

The deadline to get things in is 8/15/2024

114.

Files

115.

Philip Davis (honorary to full)

116.

st we pump water from under the office to the sewer

117.

Emily-yes, Susan-yes, Glenn-yes, Marion-yes, Robert-yes, Chris-yes Dalton-yes

118.

Kayla Davis (honorary to full)

119.

Emily-yes, Susan-yes, Glenn-yes, Marion-yes, Robert-yes, Chris-yes Dalton-yes

120.

Jacoby Davis (honorary)

121.

VC Cheryl: I need verification on honorary votes taken by the executive branch

122.

Meeting 2/3 at 10 am

123.

Newsletter

124.

Susan: It’s not been done because the printer hasn’t been hooked up

125.

Reminder: Family Day 2/17/2024

126.

Susan: will 2C Alan cook and if so, what?

127.

BBQ, slaw, baked beans

128.

Glenn: I’ll get prices at Bojangles too

129.

Reminder: Fire Ceremony dates for 2024: 3/16, 6/20, 9/21, 12/14

130.

Marion: we need to have the grounds surveyed to pinpoint our property lines

131.

The GIS map doesn’t work; it doesn’t do with the surveyor’s plat

132.

Rick H: does the current deed have GPS coordinates?

133.

CoC Dalton: the plat should have it on there

134.

Rick H: if it’s at the courthouse, it should have coordinates on there

135.

VC Cheryl: no, there’s deed and land records and there’s plats

136.

Glenn: we need the map to pinpoint our corners

137.

VC Cheryl: we can go to the courthouse on Monday, Marion

138.

Reminder: Letters of Intent for the 2024 election are due ASAP but no later than 8/15/2024

139.

The earlier it is in, the more newsletters it will appear in

140.

Seats up: Glenn, Robert, Emily, CoC

141.

Marion: David H will be here 2/24-25, maybe 2/23 to work on the longhouse

142.

He would like to know if he can camp

143.

Susan: we need to review our policy letters

144.

VC Cheryl: would it be helpful to get an intern student to sit down with us and go over them?

145.

2C John

146.

Tribal lineage requirement to become Chief

147.

It seems like a contradiction; I think all members should be able to run for all offices

148.

One paragraph in the constitution says you have full rights to run for office; another paragraph says not everyone can run for all offices

149.

We need a referendum to change it

150.

VC Cheryl: it says elected, not the qualifications

151.

2C John: the first constitution says core and non-Indian adopted members

152.

Lineal descendants wasn’t added until after the Fab4 incident in 2008

153.

According to Chief, Fab$ was the reason for adding lineal descendants and it was arbitrary

154.

CoC Dalton, VC Cheryl: no, it was a referendum

155.

2C John: but it can be removed

156.

VC Cheryl: For example using the US Constitution: you could remove the 13th amendment and go back to slavery

157.

2C John: you could

158.

2C John: reasons

159.

Some other members might want to run

160.

Something could happen to the Chief and the VC

161.

What if they don’t want to the position

162.

Susan: if you change it to where anyone can be Chief, we’d have to change the name to Tribe of Aynor

163.

It will hurt our chances of federal recognition; we are founded on people of the Dimery settlement

164.

Rick H: are you going to keep shooting yourself in the foot?

165.

2C John: is there criteria for federal recognition that it’s lineal to be Chief?

166.

Susan: we have to go by 25 CFR 83.7

167.

Elder Charles: how many core members do we have currently?

168.

CoC Dalton: last I looked, between 75-80%

169.

Rick H: how many core members have the time, capability, etc…?

170.

CoC Dalton: the same could be said for non-core members

171.

2C John: I looked at the federal recognition and saw nowhere that it says lineal descendants

172.

CoC Dalton: if the most capable person to run for president is 18, would you let him run?

173.

2C John: right now, we have inequality across the board

174.

VC Cheryl: the latest constitution clarified role qualifications and the balance of core and non-core on tribal council

175.

The reason for the responsive vote was when we nearly lost our tribe

176.

2C John: a minute ago, you said it wasn’t the Fab4

177.

VC Cheryl: I think we need to discuss this during an executive session

178.

CoC Dalton: next time, there needs to be less rancor and more discussion

179.

You have the right to put forth a referendum regardless

180.

VC Cheryl

181.

I think we need to schedule an executive session to prevent further embarrassment

182.

CoC Dalton: I’m not sure it needs to be an executive session, but send me your reasoning and we’ll discuss it

183.

Elders

184.

Larry J: 2 samples of linoleum

185.

Recommend taking the refrigerator out, turning the bar around towards the stove

186.

Dr. Dillian

187.

40 students between 2 classes making 20 panels for the grounds

188.

They will be here on 3/16 conducting interviews

189.

A geographer will create maps and enter them into the GIS database

190.

Using a scanner for documents

191.

Grand opening 4/16 at 3 pm: tribes in SC, VIPs, government officials, CCU, public media

192.

4/17: Canadian Film Day: Trick or Treaty

193.

Free tickets

194.

Canadian VIPs

Susan motioned to close the meeting; Robert seconded.

Emily-yes, Susan-yes, Glenn-yes, Marion-yes, Robert-yes, Chris-yes Dalton-yes

The meeting adjourned at 9:3 p.m.

Respectfully submitted by Michelle Hatcher on 2/19/2023 at 3:17 pm.

Tags:

- [meeting](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/meeting)
- [Native](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/native)
- [#Waccamaw](https://www.waccamaw.org/updates/tags/waccamaw-1)

